

===== PAGE 1 =====

Predictive Maintenance in Electrical Machines:  
An Edge Computing Approach 
Javier de las Morenas, Francisco Moya-Fernández 
 
 Mantis Research Group, University of Castilla-La Mancha. Almadén-Toledo, Spain  
Email: {javier.delasmorenas, francisco.moya}@uclm.es 
 
Abstract—Predictive maintenance is one of the premises of 
the Industry 4.0. A condition monitoring and fault diagnostic 
never seen before are possible with the new technologies 
embracing the digitalisation. This paper presents an edge 
computing approach for the predictive maintenance of 
electrical machines based on motor current signature analysis 
(MCSA), using Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) and a Support 
Vector Machine (SVM) classifier. A broken rotor bars and 
eccentricity fault detection are implemented on Arduino 
platform, providing a low-cost solution affordable for small 
and medium enterprises. The system has been tested in a lathe 
in one of the laboratories of the Mining and Industrial School 
of Almaden (UCLM) with satisfactory results. 
Keywords—Condition Monitoring, Predictive Maintenance, 
Fault Diagnosis, induction motors, edge computing 
I. INTRODUCTION  
Being immersed in the fourth industrial revolution, 
Digitalisation, the use of new technologies and lines of 
research are emerging: Internet of Things, Big Data, 
everything Smart, Cloud Computing... all of them with the 
intention of digitalising information.  
The origin of this digitalisation lies in Industry 4.0 
(Industrie 4.0) [1], German Federal Government project to 
promote digitalization in manufacturing or networked, 
digitized production [2], where machines and products are 
seen as intelligent, networked components, which can 
exchange data locally, globally and across company borders.  
The Fourth Industrial Revolution, or Industry 4.0, uses 
digital technologies (IoT, AI, sensors) to blend the physical 
and virtual [3]. 
The Industry 4.0 approach aims to [4]: 
• Efficiently control distributed control systems 
through a partnership of autonomous units. 
• Blending the physical world with the virtual world; 
where each physical element (sensors, products, raw 
materials, 
handling 
and 
transport 
machinery, 
operators) is represented by virtual units. This 
requires connectivity between each virtual element 
with the rest of the virtual and physical elements, as 
well as a control implementation from the virtual to 
the physical world. 
• Decision-making, optimization and efficiency (cost-
effectiveness, 
high 
performance 
and 
energy 
efficiency). 
• Creation of new business models and service-based 
approaches to value creation. 
The way to implement Industry 4.0, or the digitalization 
revolution, is through Cyber-Physical Systems (CPS), or as 
they are known in their more industrial version: Industrial 
Cyber-Physical Systems (ICPS) [5] or Cyber-Physical 
Production Systems (CPPS) [6], combined with the 
widespread use of the Internet of Things, (IoT) [7]. ICPS 
provide the necessary digital representation, smart service 
development and interoperability interfaces required to 
support 
the 
operation 
of 
flexible, 
network-based 
manufacturing environments, where embedded smart 
devices work together, via the IoT, and centralised control is 
transferred to a distributed smart network [8]. 
This digitalisation is having a major impact in other areas 
such as smart cities/buildings, smart energy systems, 
pollution monitoring, health tracking or intelligent transport 
systems. However, unfortunately, its adoption by industry 
has yet to be fully realised.  
This paper focuses on one of the premises of Industry 4.0: 
predictive maintenance, and more specifically on predictive 
maintenance in electrical machines. According to the 
International Energy Agency report [9], around 50% of all 
energy generated in developed countries is consumed by 
electric induction motors. So, the interest in fault prediction 
and detection on these machines has increased significantly 
[10-12]. This paper presents an ICPS solution for the 
predictive maintenance of an electrical machine, aiming to 
reduce maintenance costs and equipment downtime by 
detecting equipment faults. 
The remaining paper is organized as follows: Section II 
presents the commonly used techniques to perform a 
predictive maintenance in inductive electric motors. Sections 
III presents the parts of the ICPS system performing the 
predictive maintenance, paying special attention to provide 
an edge computing solution, i.e. a solution capable of 
computing data locally. Section IV shows the experimental 
results carried out to test the proposal. Finally, Section VI 
rounds up the paper with the conclusions and points out some 
future work. 
II. STATE OF THE ART 
The three-phase induction motor with squirrel cage rotor 
has become widespread in industry. Its use, as with all other 
types of motors, is exposed to various hostile environments, 
incorrect applications, and manufacturing defects. Internal 
defects such as short circuits, earth faults, broken rods or 
bearing failures are unavoidable. The same applies to defects 
caused by external agents or effects. In addition, operation in 
aggressive environments can accelerate ageing and make it 
more susceptible to the appearance of new faults, and the 
gradual deterioration caused by ageing itself will result in the 
potential for motor failure if these internal and external 
defects are not detected and corrected early enough.  
Induction motors are protected by devices such as relays, 
circuit breakers, etc., but the performance of these 
protections is limited either to protecting the motor against 
2022 IEEE 5th International Conference on Industrial Cyber-Physical Systems (ICPS) | 978-1-6654-9770-1/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/ICPS51978.2022.9816921
Authorized licensed use limited to: FUNDACAO UNIVERSIDADE DO RIO GRANDE. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 16:00:39 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.


===== PAGE 2 =====

an external problem or to a significant level of motor 
deterioration, when the fault is often irreversible. On the 
other hand, the demand from users to increase the reliability 
of electric motors is constantly growing, due to the 
importance of many applications, advances in technology 
and the need to obtain better operating results. In this 
situation, the possibility of knowing when a failure is starting 
to develop becomes essential in those applications which, 
due to their complexity, critical operation, cost of shutdown 
or repair, safety, do not allow the motor to fail unexpectedly. 
Several diagnostic methods have been developed for 
three-phase induction motors. These methods are generally 
based on the analysis of the magnitudes available at the 
motor terminals or of those faults that can be observed by 
means of suitable devices, proceeding to their measurement 
under normal operating conditions of the motor or with the 
machine out of service.  
A. Out-of-service Diagnostics.  
These techniques are characterised by the fact that they 
are carried out when the machine is not in operation, in many 
cases requiring the motor to be switched off and even 
partially or totally dismantled. They are usually carried out 
during scheduled overhaul periods. Most of these methods 
are dedicated to observations on the degree of deterioration 
of the insulation system and on the state of the magnetic core. 
These methods include [13]:  
• Measurement of insulation to ground: Insulation 
resistance, polarisation index, absorption current, 
tangent delta capacitance, loss factor, overvoltage 
tests.  
• Insulation between turns: Shock wave test, insulation 
resistance, reverse sequence impedance, electrical 
circuit analysis, parameter estimation.  
• Magnetic core analysis: with application of nominal 
or reduced flux.  
• Bearing lubricant analysis: Physical characteristics, 
particle content.  
B. In-service Diagnostics. 
In-service diagnostic methods provide information on the 
state of the machine without the need for interruptions in 
operation. This is an important advantage, as each of them 
usually has a series of analysis utilities, normally in the form 
of software, which allows them to be used in predictive 
maintenance 
programmes, 
making 
their 
application 
extremely attractive.  
The most important methods for diagnosing faults with 
Condition Monitoring (CM) are [10]: 
• Stator current analysis or motor current signature 
analysis (MCSA) [14, 15].  
• Vibration analysis [16, 17].  
• Temperature measurement (thermography) [18, 19]. 
• Partial discharges.  
• Gas analysis.  
• Axial dispersion flux analysis  
• Torque and speed fluctuations.  
• Input power analysis.  
The first three being the most important. In this paper 
MCSA is used as it is non-invasive, lower-cost and reliable 
technology to develop a condition monitoring and fault 
diagnosis in an induction motor. 
C. MCSA in induction machines 
The most studied faults in induction motors are bearing 
faults, stator faults, broken rotor bars, and eccentricity faults. 
Each of these faults have a characteristic frequency in the 
MCSA analysis of the induction motor. In this papers 
eccentricity and faults and broken rotor bars are covered. 
1) Eccentricity Faults 
Two different eccentricity faults can appear: the static 
and the dynamic. Fig. 1 shows both.  
Static eccentricity is the distortion of the air gap size in 
which its minimum value remains in a fixed position. It 
occurs basically in two ways: either due to the oval shape of 
the stator or due to incorrect positioning of the rotor. 
In the case of dynamic eccentricity, the point of minimum 
air gap rotates together with the rotor and thus changes its 
position over time. This type of eccentricity can be caused by 
an oval shape of the rotor or by the centre of rotation of the 
rotor being out of phase with the geometrical centre of 
rotation.  
When a mixed eccentricity fault happens, sidebands of 
the fundamental frequency of the power supply appears. 
These sideband frequencies are given by [20]: 
 
𝑓𝑒𝑐𝑐= 𝑓𝑠[1 ± 𝑚(
1−𝑠
𝑝)] 
() 
Where 𝑓𝑠 is the supply frequency, 𝑠 is the slip, 𝑝 is the 
number of pole pairs, and 𝑚=1,2,3,… This scheme 
compared to others does not need to know the mechanical 
characteristics of the motor. 
2) Broken Rotor Bars 
Broken rotor bars are one of the main ways in which a 
motor can fail, especially in high-power motors that 
frequently start under load. The starting transient is the one 
that causes the most stresses in the rotor bars, as during this 
transient the highest currents appear in these bars due to the 
difference in speeds between the rotor and the stator field. 
When there are broken rotor bars in a motor, the rotor 
symmetry is destroyed which results in the appearance of a 
rotating field that generates harmonics in the stator current 
according to by [20]: 
 
𝑓𝑏𝑟𝑏= 𝑓𝑠[𝑘(
1−𝑠
𝑝) ± 𝑠] 
() 
 
Fig. 1. Healthy motor (left), static ecentricity fault (centrer), and 
dynamic eccentricity (rigth) 
Authorized licensed use limited to: FUNDACAO UNIVERSIDADE DO RIO GRANDE. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 16:00:39 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.


===== PAGE 3 =====

Where, due to the normal winding configuration, 𝑘=
𝑝, 5𝑝, 7𝑝, 11𝑝, 13𝑝, …  
As the influence of the main frequency is predominant, 
equation (2) can be simplified as: 
 
𝑓𝑏𝑟𝑏2 = 𝑓𝑠[1 −2𝑠] 
() 
III. PREDICTIVE MAINTENANCE IN THE ICPS ERA 
A 
Cyber 
Physical 
Systems 
(CPS) 
integrates 
computational applications with physical devices, being 
designed as a network of interacting cyber and physical 
elements [4]. In contrast to embedded systems, where the 
focus is on computational elements hosted in stand-alone 
devices, CPS are mostly designed to be a larger network of 
interacting computational and physical elements [21]. When 
CPS are used in industrial environments emergence the 
ICPS.  
Under the topic covered in this paper, the ICPS will 
comprised many components, but the related to the 
predictive maintenance can be summarized as the following 
two: 
• Physical part. It includes all the sensors involved in 
the data acquisition necessary to carry out the 
predictive maintenance. 
• Cyber part. It is the intelligent one, where the data 
coming from the physical world is analysed and 
interpreted. Here is where emerging technologies 
such as Big Data and Artificial Intelligent are applied. 
At this point two different approaches can be taken: Edge 
or Fog/Cloud Computing 
1) Fog/Cloud computing. 
These are scenarios where the data is collected locally 
and send it to the fog or the cloud for further processing. This 
setup provides high computing power. Some researchers are 
focused on test or develop new machine learning models 
based on simulation environments such as Matlab/Simulink 
[22], or works where datasets are modified including 
possible failures to test the performance of different 
identification techniques [23]. It is common that machines 
are located at fixed position, although there are exceptions. 
In [24] is presented the predictive maintenance of the mobile 
machinery present in a mining complex through Bluetooth 
Low Energy vibration sensors. 
2) Edge computing.  
When the cyber and the physical part are located close to 
the electrical machine to be tested. This approach is difficult 
to implement in industrial environments due to the 
computing effort required to process the data, leading to the 
necessity of have a personal computer nearby.  
In controlled environments, as laboratories, this setup is 
very common: data acquisition cards and equipment to 
process the information, mainly a personal computer with 
specialized software, where it is possible to provoke faults in 
the electrical machine and study the consequences. In [15] is 
used a NI DAQ to acquire the information from a current 
sensor an test different pre-filter technics to prepare the data. 
In [25] a NI DAQ, a current probe and a tachometer are used 
to test an induction motor and test different machine learning 
methods, neural network and multimodal deep learning. Ref. 
[14] proposed a deep network-based to study the features of 
thermograms, with the help of a thermal camera. These 
setups are permissible in an academic environment to 
perform tests and analyse the results to provide new 
techniques, but in and industrial environment can be difficult 
to implement.  
There are few examples where the edge computing is 
taken to its maximum expression. In [26] is proposed a 
bearing fault detection through vibration analysis by means 
of ultra-low power wireless sensors. The sensors acquire and 
analyse the data and only send information regarding the 
good/bad state of the machine to the rest of the ICPS. This 
application is possible thanks to the use of single axis 
accelerometers and the development of a new light weight 
neural network classifier. 
An edge computing solution for predictive maintenance 
based on and ICPS architecture is presented in the following 
sections. 
B. ICPS Physical Part. 
It is necessary to count with a data acquisition system in 
order to carry out a predictive maintenance in electrical 
machines focused on the detection of airgap eccentricities 
and broken rotor bars by means of MCSA techniques. 
As the faults that are going to be analysed appears at the 
sidebands of the main frequency, 50 Hz, it is chosen a 
sampling rate of ten times the main frequency, 500 Hz. This 
sampling frequency broadly meets the Shannon-Nyquist 
frequency, so problems of aliasing or faulty reconstruction 
signals are avoided. 
An Arduino Uno board has been chosen for the data 
acquisition. It has 6 analog input pins. This analog-to-digital 
converter (ADC) has a default sampling rate of 
approximately 9600 Hz. This sampling rate is due to the 
16MHz of the ADC clock of the Arduino’s microcontroller, 
ATMega328P, and the prescale factor set to 128, as default. 
If the Arduino’s environment functions are avoided, it could 
be possible to achieve a sampling rate of 615 kHz, decreasing 
the prescale factor to 2 and using interrupts. For the 
application at hand is enough the default sample rate. 
Once is defined the sampling rate, and checked the 
chosen ADC provides it, it is time to accommodate the signal 
of the power grid (230 VAC line to ground voltage) feeding 
the induction motor to the analog input (0-5 VCC).  
To measure the current consumed by the induction 
motors it is chosen a non-invasive clamp sensor, model SCT-
013-030 by YHDC®, installed as Fig.2 shows. SCT-013-030 
is a current transformer with a range of 0-30 A providing an 
output voltage from 0 to 1V. As alternate current has positive 
and negative values it is necessary to adapt the range to the 
positive range of Arduino. A 0,5 voltages offset has been 
added using a voltage divider. With the aim of increasing the 
resolution in the data acquisition, a single-supply 
instrumentation amplifier configured with a gain of 4 is 
included, specifically the AD623 by Analog Devices® and, 
after that, an OP113 operational amplifier configured in 
voltage follower, as AD623’s manufacturer recommends. 
Therefore, the final characteristic curve of the sensor is given 
by: 
  
𝑖(𝑡) =
15
3.5 (𝑣(𝑡) −4) 
() 
Authorized licensed use limited to: FUNDACAO UNIVERSIDADE DO RIO GRANDE. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 16:00:39 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.


===== PAGE 4 =====

As the ADC of Arduino has 10 bits of resolution, it is 
possible to reach a resolution in the measurement of 0,036 A. 
Taking this information into account the characteristics curve 
for the sensor attending to the readings of the ADC will be: 
 
𝑖(𝑡) =
15
3.5 (
5
1023 𝐴𝐷𝐶(𝑡) −4) 
() 
C. ICPS Cyber Part. 
For the cyber part of the edge computing is proposed to 
continue using the Arduino Uno. The cyber part is in charge 
of process the data coming from the sensors, extract the 
specific features, classified them, and share the status of the 
machine to the rest of the ICPS, as Fig. 3 shows. 
1) Signal Processing. 
Raw data coming from the sensors is a time-based signal. 
A frequency-based signal is needed to extract the convenient 
information. For that, it is possible to use Fast Fourier 
Transform (FFT) [16, 27], wavelet [14] or Hilbert–Huang 
Transform [28]. 
FFT is the chosen method in this paper. So, the signal has 
to be windowed: 
 
𝑖𝑅
∗(𝑡) = {𝑖𝑅
∗(𝑡)
𝑓𝑜𝑟 𝑡 𝜖 [0, 𝑇]
0
𝑂𝑡ℎ𝑒𝑟𝑤𝑖𝑠𝑒} 
() 
And then compute the Fourier Transform: 
 
𝐼𝑅
∗(𝜔) = ∫
𝑖𝑅
∗(𝑡)
∞
−∞
𝑒−𝑗𝜔𝑡𝑑𝑡 
() 
The ArduinoFFT library is used to compute the FFT of 
the acquired signal. 
2) Feature Selection. 
As stated in previous section II.C, it is necessary to 
measure the sidebands of the main frequency to detect 
eccentricity or broken rotor bars faults. So, the amplitude of 
that frequencies will be the features, 𝜙, chosen for the 
classification of the motors as healthy or faulty in the map 𝛷. 
Therefore, each feature is computed as: 
 
𝜙∗= 𝛷(𝑖𝑅
∗(𝑡)) = |𝐼𝑅
∗(𝜔)| 
() 
3) Classification. 
The prediction methods use the features to classify the 
motor as healthy or faulty. Prediction methods can be 
classified as data-driven methods and model-based methods 
[29]. Data-driven methods attempt to derive the degradation 
processes of machinery from measurements using machine 
learning techniques. It is common to find solutions based on 
Artificial Neural Networks (ANN), Fuzzy Logic and Neuro-
Fuzzy Systems (NFSs), Evolutionary Algorithms (EAs), 
Support Vector Machine (SVM) [30], among others. 
Model-based methods rely on establishing empirical or 
physical models to describe the degradation processes of the 
machine and update the model parameters according to real-
time information from sensors.  
The normal procedure in SVM is first to train the 
classification model with a tagged dataset including the 
involved classes to, then, test the model with another dataset, 
in this case with untagged data, and analyse the performance. 
Intuitively, an SVM is a model that represents sample 
points in a space, sorting them into classes that characterizes 
2 subspaces separated by a hyperplane, as is shown in Fig 4. 
The hyperplane is defined as the vector between the 2 points 
of the 2 classes, closest to the called support vectors. The 
support vectors define the boundaries of the subspaces. The 
distance between support vectors of each subspace is the 
margin. As there are many hyperplanes able to classify the 
samples, it is common to choose the one with the largest 
margin. 
New arriving samples are transformed into the 
classification space and, depending on their location, they 
will belong to a subspace and, therefore, can be classified 
into one or the other class. For the case in hand as “faulty” or 
“healthy”. 
Although it is possible to separate non-linear regions 
using kernel functions, the chosen hyperplane, 𝐻(𝑤, 𝑏), will 
follow the common expression: 
 
𝐻(𝑤, 𝑏) = 𝑤• 𝜙−𝑏= 0 
() 
Where 𝜔 is the weight vector, 𝜙 is the feature in the 
featured map 𝛷, and b is the bias term, a point in the space.   
 
Fig 2. Signal conditioning circuit 
 
Fig 3. Flowchart of the cyber part 
Dissemination
Classification
Feature selection
Signal processing
Raw data
 
Fig 4. Hperplane of a SVM classifier 
Authorized licensed use limited to: FUNDACAO UNIVERSIDADE DO RIO GRANDE. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 16:00:39 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.


===== PAGE 5 =====

In this paper it is used the SVM adaptation proposed in 
[27] for the case of broken rotor bar faults. Instead of train 
the model, it is defined theoretically for a healthy and a faulty 
motor, so, the training phase is theoretically solved, leading 
to the following solution: 
 
𝑤=
2(𝜙ℎ−𝜙𝑓)
||𝜙ℎ−𝜙𝑓||2 
() 
 
𝑏=
(𝜙ℎ−𝜙𝑓)(𝜙ℎ+𝜙𝑓)
||𝜙ℎ−𝜙𝑓||2
 
() 
Where 𝜙ℎ denotes the feature value of a healthy motor, 
and 𝜙𝑓 the value for a faulty one. Both features have to be 
computed theoretically according to the characteristics of 
the electrical motor. 
4) Dissemination. 
Once the system has estimated the status of the machine, 
this information will be share with the rest of the ICPS 
controlling the system. Depending on the scenario will be 
useful to use LAN or Wireless communications to 
disseminate the information. One feasible solution having 
and Arduino Uno is to include a communication shield, but, 
in order to do not interfere in the normal operation of the 
microcontroller would be better to use a UART-LAN/WIFI 
interface module that executes all the communication 
protocol, and let Arduino only to send the information 
through the USART port. 
IV. EXPERIMENTAL RESULTS 
The proposed fault detection method based on Arduino 
Boards has been tested on one of the lathes of the Mechanical 
Engineering Laboratory at the Mining and Industrial School 
of Almadén (UCLM-Spain), specifically a Pinacho A.75 
(Fig. 5) equipped with a three phases electrical motor AEG 
AM 100 LZ 4 with the characteristics shown in Table I. 
According to the information presented in Table I, it is 
possible to calculate the slip, 𝑠, by: 
 
𝑛𝑠=
60 ∙ 𝑓
𝑝
=
60 ∙ 50
2
= 1500𝑟𝑝𝑚 
() 
 
𝑠=
𝑛𝑠 − 𝑛 
𝑛𝑠
=
(1500 − 1420) 𝑟𝑝𝑚  
1500 𝑟𝑝𝑚
= 0.053 
() 
With this information and using equations (1) and (3) it 
is possible to determine the sidebands around the main 
frequency that will advise of: 
• a broken bar (3): 44.667 𝐻𝑧. 
• an eccentricity fault (1): 26.333 𝐻𝑧, 73.667 𝐻𝑧, 
121 𝐻𝑧, and 168,333𝐻𝑧.  
First, a commercial power analyser, CIR-e3 by 
Circutor®, was connected in the power supply of the 
machine to perform a first check of the amplitude of the 
featured frequencies. Unfortunately, this device only 
provides information related to the common harmonics, 
neither sidebands nor graphical results are presented to have 
an idea of the state of the machine. The voltage wave presents 
harmonics of 3rd, 5th and 11th order, related to frequencies of 
150 Hz, 250 Hz and 550 Hz, respectively. So, apart from the 
subjective opinion of the operator of the lathe, guessing about 
the perfect condition of it, there is no more extra information. 
When using ArduinoFFT library it is necessary to define 
the sampling frequency and the number of samples. It is 
necessary to reach a good frequency resolution, that states 
how far are two consecutive frequencies in the spectrum. The 
frequency resolution is calculated by: 
 
𝑅𝑒𝑠𝑓=
𝑓𝑠𝑎𝑚𝑝𝑙𝑖𝑛𝑔  
𝑠𝑎𝑚𝑝𝑙𝑒𝑠 
() 
There are two options to improve the resolution: use a 
smaller 𝑓𝑠𝑎𝑚𝑝𝑙𝑖𝑛𝑔 or increase the number of samples. The 
first one is restricted by the Shannon-Nyquist frequency. The 
second one is restricted by the resources of Arduino board. 
So, for a 500 Hz 𝑓𝑠𝑎𝑚𝑝𝑙𝑖𝑛𝑔 and 128 samples (restricted by the 
2K of RAM in Arduino Uno) the frequency resolution is 
about 3.9 Hz/division; 3.9 Hz from bin to bin. This value is 
worse than the required, as it does not allow us to collect 
enough useful information between slots. For the case of an 
Arduino Mega (8K of RAM) is possible to reach 512 samples 
and a frequency resolution of 0.97 Hz/division. A second 
configuration (120 Hz and 512 samples) for Arduino Mega 
can improve the frequency resolution to 0.23 Hz/division. 
These last configurations have been used in the test.  
The amplitude of the featured frequencies are defined as 
the chosen features, 𝜙, for the classifier to estimate if there is 
a broken bar in the motor or an eccentricity fault.  
The hyperplane of the classifier has been defined from 
𝜙ℎ= 0.2 and 𝜙𝑓= 0.4 as 𝐻(𝑤, 𝑏) = −10 • 𝜙+ 3 = 0 
leading to classifying 𝜙 as healthy when 𝐻> 0 and faulty 
when 𝐻< 0.  
After testing with the two-hardware configuration for the 
data collection, and locally computing the FFT in Arduino, 
the spectrums shown in Fig. 6 where achieved. Taking each 
of the features and using the SVM classifier leads to affirm 
that the motor of the lathe is healthy as there are no pikes at 
the featured frequencies. This information can be then share 
with the rest of the components of the system. 
 
Fig 5. Pinacho A.75 tested 
TABLE I.  
CHARACTERISTICS OF THE ELECTRICAL MOTOR TESTED 
Description 
Value 
Power 
4 kW 
Frequency 
50 Hz 
Voltage 
220 / 380 V 
Current 
11.8 / 6.8 A 
Number of revolutions 
1420 rpm 
Number of poles 
4 
Authorized licensed use limited to: FUNDACAO UNIVERSIDADE DO RIO GRANDE. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 16:00:39 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.


===== PAGE 6 =====

V. CONCLUSIONS 
Predictive maintenance, under the Industry 4.0 umbrella, 
brings many benefits for companies. In this paper a 
predictive maintenance system over edge computing is 
proposed. This predictive system has been conceived as an 
ICPS being part of another ICPS bigger. The physical and the 
cyber part has been defined and build over the Arduino 
platform, specifically the Arduino Mega board.  
The system develops well known MCSA maintenance 
techniques for electrical motors in the edge, without the 
necessity of further analysis in the cloud. Two failures 
detections have been deployed: eccentricities and broken 
rotor bars.  
The proposed solution is affordable for small and 
medium enterprises, allowing them to become part of the 
new Digitalisation paradigm and take advance of its benefits. 
Future work is related to include more complex 
classifiers, based on information coming from different 
sensors and not only detect the fault, but to work on 
prognosis.  
REFERENCES 
1. 
The Federal Ministry for Economic Affairs of Germany. Industrie 
4.0. 
 
[cited 
09-08-21; 
Available 
from: 
https://www.bmwi.de/Redaktion/EN/Dossier/industrie-40.html. 
2. 
Orth, M. Industry 4.0 – explained in simple terms. 2018  [cited 09-
08-21; 
Available 
from: 
https://www.deutschland.de/en/topic/business/what-industry-40-
means-and-what-benefits-it-brings. 
3. 
Zhou, K., L. Taigang, and Z. Lifeng. Industry 4.0: Towards future 
industrial opportunities and challenges. in 2015 12th International 
Conference on Fuzzy Systems and Knowledge Discovery. 2015. 
4. 
Kagermann, H., W. Wahlster, and J. Helbig, Securing the future of 
German 
manufacturing 
industry: 
Recommendations 
for 
implementing the strategic initiative INDUSTRIE 4.0. Technical 
Report, ACATECH German National Academy of Science and 
Engineering, 2013. 4(0). 
5. 
Karnouskos, S., et al., Industrial Agents as a Key Enabler for 
Realizing Industrial Cyber-Physical Systems: Multiagent Systems 
Entering Industry 4.0. IEEE Industrial Electronics Magazine, 2020. 
14(3): p. 18-32. 
6. 
Monostori, L., Cyber-physical production systems: Roots, 
expectations and R&D challenges. Procedia CIRP, 2014. 17: p. 9-
13. 
7. 
Wollschlaeger, M., T. Sauter, and J. Jasperneite, The Future of 
Industrial Communication: Automation Networks in the Era of the 
Internet of Things and Industry 4.0. IEEE Industrial Electronics 
Magazine, 2017. 11(1): p. 17-27. 
8. 
Borangiu, T., et al., Digital transformation of manufacturing. 
Industry of the Future with Cyber-Physical Production Systems. Sci. 
Technol, 2020. 23: p. 3-37. 
9. 
Waide, P. and C.U. Brunner, Energy-Efficiency Policy Opportunities 
for Electric Motor-Driven Systems. IEA Energy Papers, 2011. 
2011/07. 
10. 
Frosini, L., Novel Diagnostic Techniques for Rotating Electrical 
Machines—A Review. Energies, 2020. 13(19): p. 5066. 
11. 
Liu, Z., et al., A Review of Modeling and Diagnostic Techniques for 
Eccentricity Fault in Electric Machines. Energies, 2021. 14(14): p. 
4296. 
12. 
Choudhary, A., et al., Condition Monitoring and Fault Diagnosis of 
Induction Motors: A Review. Archives of Computational Methods in 
Engineering, 2019. 26(4): p. 1221-1238. 
13. 
Duque, Ó. and M. Pérez, Motores de Inducción. Técnicas de 
Mantenimiento Predictivo. 2005: @becedario. 
14. 
Khechekhouche, A., et al., Experimental diagnosis of inter-turns 
stator fault and unbalanced voltage supply in induction motor using 
MCSA and DWER. Periodicals of Engineering and Natural Sciences 
(PEN), 2020. 8(3): p. 1202-1216. 
15. 
Kompella, K.C.D., et al., Robustification of fault detection algorithm 
in a three-phase induction motor using MCSA for various single and 
multiple faults. IET Electric Power Applications, 2021. 15(5): p. 
593-615. 
16. 
Glowacz, A., et al., Detection of deterioration of three-phase 
induction motor using vibration signals. Measurement Science 
Review, 2019. 19(6): p. 241-249. 
17. 
Sudhakar, I., S. AdiNarayana, and M. AnilPrakash, Condition 
Monitoring of a 3-Ø Induction Motor by Vibration Spectrum 
anaylsis using Fft Analyser- A Case Study. Materials Today: 
Proceedings, 2017. 4(2, Part A): p. 1099-1105. 
18. 
Choudhary, A., D. Goyal, and S.S. Letha, Infrared Thermography-
Based Fault Diagnosis of Induction Motor Bearings Using Machine 
Learning. IEEE Sensors Journal, 2021. 21(2): p. 1727-1734. 
19. 
Khanjani, M. and M. Ezoji, Electrical fault detection in three-phase 
induction motor using deep network-based features of thermograms. 
Measurement, 2021. 173: p. 108622. 
20. 
Benbouzid, M.E.H., A review of induction motors signature analysis 
as a medium for faults detection. IEEE Transactions on Industrial 
Electronics, 2000. 47(5): p. 984-993. 
21. 
Barbosa, J., et al. Cross benefits from cyber-physical systems and 
intelligent products for future smart industries. in 2016 IEEE 14th 
International Conference on Industrial Informatics (INDIN). 2016. 
22. 
Dekhandji, F.Z., S.E. Halledj, and O. Zaboub, Predictive 
Maintenance Applied to Three phase Induction Motors. Algerian 
Journal of Signals and Systems, 2019. 4(2): p. 71-88. 
23. 
Jove, E., et al., An intelligent system for harmonic distortions 
detection 
in 
wind 
generator 
power 
electronic 
devices. 
Neurocomputing, 2021. 456: p. 609-621. 
24. 
Aqueveque, P., et al., Data-Driven Condition Monitoring of Mining 
Mobile Machinery in Non-Stationary Operations Using Wireless 
Accelerometer Sensor Modules. IEEE Access, 2021. 9: p. 17365-
17381. 
25. 
Fu, P., et al., Dynamic Routing-based Multimodal Neural Network 
for Multi-sensory Fault Diagnosis of Induction Motor. Journal of 
Manufacturing Systems, 2020. 55: p. 264-272. 
26. 
Markiewicz, M., et al., Predictive Maintenance of Induction Motors 
Using Ultra-Low Power Wireless Sensors and Compressed 
Recurrent Neural Networks. IEEE Access, 2019. 7: p. 178891-
178902. 
27. 
Mustafa, M.O., et al., Detecting broken rotor bars in induction 
motors with model-based support vector classifiers. Control 
Engineering Practice, 2016. 52: p. 15-23. 
28. 
Antonino-Daviu, J., Electrical Monitoring under Transient 
Conditions: A New Paradigm in Electric Motors Predictive 
Maintenance. Applied Sciences, 2020. 10(17): p. 6137. 
29. 
Lei, Y., N. Li, and J. Lin, A New Method Based on Stochastic 
Process Models for Machine Remaining Useful Life Prediction. 
IEEE Transactions on Instrumentation and Measurement, 2016. 
65(12): p. 2671-2684. 
30. 
Zhang, W., et al., Comprehensive Overview on Computational 
Intelligence Techniques for Machinery Condition Monitoring and 
Fault Diagnosis. Chinese Journal of Mechanical Engineering, 2017. 
30(4): p. 782-795. 
 
 
Fig 6. FFT results with Fs=120 Hz (up) and Fs=500 Hz (down) 
Authorized licensed use limited to: FUNDACAO UNIVERSIDADE DO RIO GRANDE. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 16:00:39 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
