

===== PAGE 1 =====

 
Feature Reduction of SVM-Based Classifier For 
Predictive Maintenance OF Rotating Machines 
Ahmed Mokhtar ElSayed 
School of Electrical and Electronic Engineering 
Coventry University 
Ahmed.Raafat@tkh.edu.eg 
 
Abstract—This study proposes a predictive maintenance 
approach aimed at diagnosing motor faults, particularly 
bearing failures, at an early stage to avoid costly unplanned 
machine downtime. The proposed method leverages vibration 
analysis and a Support Vector Machine (SVM) classifier to 
identify fault types based on frequency-domain features. A key 
contribution is the optimization of both model accuracy and 
computational efficiency through dimensionality reduction. The 
ReliefF feature selection algorithm was applied to identify the 
most significant statistical features which reduced the number 
of features from 11 to 7 while maintaining a classification 
accuracy of 93.3%. As a result, the reduced model exhibits a 
20.8% improvement in prediction speed, which makes it better 
suited for edge-computing deployment.  
Keywords— Industry 4.0, Fault Diagnosis, Predictive 
maintenance, Vibration Analysis, Machine Learning, DSP. 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Bearings-problems are very common cause for machines-
failure [1]. They resemble about 40% of the major problems 
that face induction machines [2]. This has been the main drive 
for selecting the bearings as the major problem to be predicted. 
To achieve this predictive diagnosis approach, the root causes 
of bearings failure should be captured. The root causes will be 
diagnosed and captured through vibration analysis and 
machine-learning deployment. Furthermore, the machine 
learning model will be optimized through a feature-
dimensionality reduction technique to fasten the speed of the 
prediction as an early stage for developing edge-computing 
capabilities for the system. This paper does not only aim to 
achieve a great accuracy in the fault diagnosis while 
considering a single axis but also to study the significance of 
the most common used statistical features in this field in 
industry 4.0 to filter out those with the least importance. This 
is expected to enhance the generalization of the machine-
learning model and increase its speed of prediction. The 
studied vibrational dataset is obtained from [3]. This 
vibrational dataset consists of 5 lab-scale water pumps with 
different physical conditions. One motor is running at 
completely normal conditions. The second and the third 
motors encounter different magnitudes of unbalances; 6 
gm.cm and 27 gm.cm respectively. The fourth motor 
deliberately experienced a misalignment offset of 3mm from 
the center. The fifth motor’s bearings are damaged (inner and 
outer raceway faults). The signal-processing techniques and 
feature-extraction methods applied to the raw data in this 
study are consistent with state-of-the-art approaches reported 
in the literature. 
II. LITERATURE REVIEW 
Numerous studies have been conducted in this field, 
highlighting multiple possible routes toward achieving a 
robust solution, ranging from the type of data collected to the 
choice of signal-processing techniques and the application of 
suitable machine learning models. Starting with the data-
collection technique, some papers install acoustic sensors 
(e.g. Microphones) to collect sound data of the operating 
machine [4]. This approach depends on the variation of the 
sound data when there is an abnormality in the machine. 
Other approaches that rely upon accelerometers for anomaly 
detection, had also been introduced. Accelerometers give 
insights of the vibrations of the rotating parts of the machine 
in order to detect any abnormality within its activity. To make 
it clear, depending on the power and magnitude of the 
vibrations, the activity is classified as normal or abnormal. 
This approach is used by [5] and [6]. A third approach has 
also been studied in the past couple of years. This approach 
focused on the electrical signal analysis in detecting the 
abnormality of the machine. As stated by [2], this method 
depends on installing current and voltage sensors to analyze 
the electrical signals coming out of the machines. When it 
comes to the signal processing steps, there are three different 
signal-processing techniques that could be done; Time-
domain analysis, frequency-domain analysis and time-
frequency analysis which is also known as wavelet transform. 
[4].Numerous papers had previously compared between 
analyzing the raw data through these three domains. Wavelet 
transforms are used in a recognizable amounts of papers such 
as [1] which used a type of wavelet transform called 
daubechies transform, yet declared that the frequency-
domain analysis is the most common used technique in 
detecting bearings-failure. Another type of wavelet 
transformed had been utilized by [7] called DWT for 
detecting shaft misalignment under variable loading 
conditions. On the other hand, several papers applied Fast-
Fourier transform as a signal-processing technique, proofing 
that it is the most common technique and proofing its great 
accuracy of detecting different patterns of data. [6] Used FFT 
for rotating-shafts unbalance detection. Moreover FFT is 
used by the paper whose dataset was used [3] and used also 
by [7] besides utilizing the DWT technique. Afterwards, in 
order to close the main cycle of this project, the most suitable 
type of machine-learning model should be chosen in order to 
focus on the features selection later as a crucial step in this 
study. The research published by [8] applied CNN (Alex Net 
architecture) for detecting the levels of wear that encountered 
the different parts of the bearings and achieved an accuracy 
of 98.84% and the performance of the SVM in the same study 
reached up to 98.5 %. ANN also was utilized by [1] to detect 
different types of bearings‘ faults reaching an accuracy of 
94.7 %. Not to mention that a crucial review paper that is 
published by [9] which compared and summarized the pros 
and cons of the most relevant models in this field. The 
comparison is summarized in the following table. 
979-8-3315-9168-7/25/$31.00 ©2025 IEEE
Proceedings of NILES2025:
7th Novel Intelligent and Leading Emerging Sciences Conference
482
2025 7th Novel Intelligent and Leading Emerging Sciences Conference (NILES) | 979-8-3315-9168-7/25/$31.00 ©2025 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/NILES68063.2025.11232435
Authorized licensed use limited to: FUNDACAO UNIVERSIDADE DO RIO GRANDE. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 15:38:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.


===== PAGE 2 =====

TABLE I Models performances 
Algorithm 
Advantage 
Disadvantage 
SVM 
High accuracy 
Slow response 
for larger data 
K-NN 
Robust to noise 
 
Slow in real 
time 
ANN 
Parallel processing 
 
Hardware and 
over fitting 
DT and RF 
Easy to understand 
 
Over fitting  
Naïve Bayes 
Robust to noise 
Takes Time for 
Training 
Deep Learning 
Low computation 
cost and extracts 
its own features 
Large data and 
time for 
training 
Finally, a very effective SVM had been implemented by [5]. 
When it comes to feature engineering, there are common 
features that are used in almost every paper for training the 
machine-learning models. It is also worth mentioning that the 
majority of the studies take into consideration the vibrations 
of the three axis (x, y and z) while doing the signal processing 
and extracting the features. For example, 18 features were 
used in [7] composing of 6 various statistical features utilized 
in the three different axis. The features are skewness, 
kurtosis, minimum, maximum, RMS and entropy. Moreover, 
7 statistical features had been used in [1] for bearing-fault 
detection using ANN which are kurtosis, skewness, variance, 
standard deviation, speed and load. Another published review 
paper in this field declared the common statistical features 
which are mean, standard deviation, skewness and kurtosis 
[9]. Also [3] utilized FFT and then extracted statistical 
features from the output of the FFT in the three axis (x, y and 
z) as well. The features obtained from each axis are: shape 
factor, RMS, Impulse Factor, peak-to-peak, kurtosis, crest 
factor, mean, standard deviation and skewness (27 
concatenated features).  
III. METHODOLOGY 
The whole process could be summarized via the 
following block diagram. 
  
 
 
Fig. 1 Process Brief 
A. Type of data and faults of interest 
Starting with the choice of the fault-detection 
technique, vibration analysis using accelerometers will be 
used in this project. This is because vibration analysis, 
compared to sound analysis, is considered to be a more 
effective way for detecting a motor’s fault. Vibration analysis 
is more sensitive to mechanical problems and is the most 
common used technique. It carries out dynamic information 
and shows immediate response to any change as stated by 
many papers [1]. This study targets the early prediction of the 
bearing’s failure through capturing two of its main root 
causes which will eventually lead to the bearings failure 
itself. It is stated in [10] that some of the root causes for 
bearings are shaft misalignment and unbalance. This had 
been supported by a real industrial problem discussed in the 
same study where the vibrations of a 75-hp blower motor 
indicated a reduced efficiency. This observed behavior 
reflected a shaft-misalignment problem.  
B. Preprocessing technique 
Despite being applicable, it is still challenging to extract 
important features of signals from the time-domain analysis 
only. Hence there are two most common used methods for 
analyzing the raw signal; frequency-domain analysis and 
wavelet transform analysis. It is worth mentioning that the 
wavelet transform is the most accurate and latest DSP 
technique. Moreover it is applied in a variety of projects as 
stated in the previous section. However the chosen one in this 
project would be the frequency domain (FFT specifically). 
This technique would be applied on the time-domain raw 
data. FFT is chosen because it is easier to interpret and it is 
proofed to be as efficient as required. Moreover, to ensure a 
fair comparison with [3], the same preprocessing techniques 
were applied, thereby isolating dimensionality reduction as 
the main point of difference. This technique is also applied in 
various experiments as well, and proofed to be a good 
technique for features’ extraction as deduced in the literature 
review.  Furthermore, when it comes to the comparison 
between the time domain and the frequency domain analysis, 
it would be more advantageous to use the frequency-domain 
analysis (FFT) because frequency domain gives the luxury of 
breaking down the vibrations into individual components and 
thus the sources of defects can be detected separately [11].  
C. Dataset Utilized 
The vibrational dataset that will be used is prepared by 
[3]. The data is composed of 4000 csv files. Each file contains 
around 100,000 data points (vibrations x, y, z and timestamp) 
because data is acquired at a sampling rate of 20 KHz for 5s. 
The FFT of the 4000 files is computed, resulting in complex 
outputs. Afterwards, the magnitudes of the FFT of the raw 
data points (of the x-axis only) in each of the 4000 files are 
extracted and saved. The next stage included applying the 
features-extraction algorithm so that each csv file is replaced 
with a single multi-dimensional data point (11 features) so 
that the resultant output is 4000 different data points stored in 
a single file available for training as follows: 
•File 1:1000 data points – Normal condition 
•File 2:1000 data points - Misalignment condition  
•File 3: 1000 data points – Unbalance features  
•File 4: 1000 data points- Damaged-bearings features  
These files are all combined in a single CSV file showing 
4000 data points with their corresponding target (machine 
condition).  
D. Feature Engineering and machine learning model 
selection 
1) Features 
According to numerous papers in this field, the most 
commonly used statistical features in training models are: 
Mean, Minimum, Maximum, Standard deviation RMS, 
Crest factor, Peak-to-peak, Skewness, Kurtosis,  
Proceedings of NILES2025:
7th Novel Intelligent and Leading Emerging Sciences Conference
483
Authorized licensed use limited to: FUNDACAO UNIVERSIDADE DO RIO GRANDE. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 15:38:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.


===== PAGE 3 =====

Shape Factor and Impulse factor. Note that these features 
are the same used by [3]. 
2) Model selection 
Even though, the CNN is widely used, it will be an excluded 
option because this study has a potential to have edge-
computing capabilities. Adding a computer-vision task will 
consume a lot of processing power. Besides CNN, ANN was 
a strong competitor that is implemented in a variety of papers. 
However, since it depends on neural networks as well, the 
SVM will be advantageous since it is expected to consume 
less power than neural networks. By referring to table I, a 
direct comparison has been made between ANN and other 
machine learning algorithms. The table proofs that ANN has 
hardware limitations compared to others. Not to mention, the 
over fitting disadvantage which is not required at all in this 
project (the project requires a generalized machine learning 
model that is adaptable to different types of machines). 
Briefly, the selected machine learning model is the SVM. By 
referring to table 1 again, SVM shows a great accuracy. 
Moreover, as previously mentioned, SVM had been 
implemented in various papers and showed great-accuracy 
results. Even though, some papers mentioned other 
algorithms and techniques of machine learning that could be 
used, they compare the performance of those proposed 
algorithms with SVM classifier most of the time as being the 
classical machine learning algorithm.  
IV. RESULTS 
For the classical vibration analysis without the 
intervention of the machine learning, each fault could be 
matched with a unique signature onto its FFT plot; this is 
actually one of the advantages of using vibration analysis as 
previously mentioned since each rotating component will 
appear onto the spectrum correspondent to its frequency of 
rotation. With that being said, the dataset is tested for 
verification through plotting a random file from each type of 
fault to make sure each fault matches its anticipated 
signatures.  
A. FFT plots of data (Analysis by inspection). 
It is worth mentioning that the fundamental frequency of 
the machine is 50 Hz since its RPM is 3000.  
The FFT of the x-axis vibrations of a two randomly chosen 
data files (100,000 data points each); one for misalignment 
and one for unbalance, is calculated and plotted as in the 
following figures (Fig. 2-5).  
By observing the following plots, in case of an unbalance, the 
dominant frequency component is almost at 50 Hz (see fig. 
2). This could be validated in the normalized plot (fig. 4) 
where the x-axis values are divided by 60 so that they are 
resembled as multiples of the fundamental frequency. Thus 
in fig. 4, the dominant component was almost at 1x (The 
fundamental frequency). On the other hand, by inspecting the 
normalized misalignment plot (fig. 5), it could be declared 
that the dominant frequency component is at 2x. These 
observations match the theory of the classical vibration 
analysis when studying the misalignment and unbalance 
signatures (2x and 1x respectively). [12] 
 
         
    
 
   
Fig. 2 Unbalance spectrum signature            Fig. 3 Misalignment spectrum signature 
 
          
 
          
 
 Fig. 4 Normalized unbalance plot  
Fig. 5 Normalized misalignment plot 
 
 
B. Accuracy of the model, before and after feature scaling 
First of all, grid search was initially applied to compare 
kernel types, where the RBF kernel showed superior 
performance. For subsequent experiments, the RBF kernel 
was employed with default hyperparameters (C = 1.0, γ = 
‘scale’), as further tuning seemed unnecessary given the 
stable and satisfactory results obtained. The model’s 
accuracy was evaluated on unseen data using a train–test split 
of 70%–30%, ensuring that 30% of the input data remained 
unseen during testing the accuracy. The first run of the trained 
SVM showed a poor performance of 37.1%. By comparing 
the range of values of each feature to the other, it is concluded 
that there are some features with huge magnitudes compared 
to others which could introduce a bias to the model. 
Therefore, the proposed solution is to standardize the features 
using the following formula: 
 Standardization=
(𝑿𝑿−𝒙𝒙_𝒎𝒎𝒎𝒎𝒎𝒎𝒎𝒎)
𝒔𝒔𝒔𝒔𝒔𝒔𝒔𝒔𝒔𝒔𝒔𝒔𝒔𝒔𝒔𝒔 𝒅𝒅𝒅𝒅𝒅𝒅𝒅𝒅𝒅𝒅𝒅𝒅𝒅𝒅𝒅𝒅𝒅𝒅. 
 
 Fortunately, after scaling the features, the performance of 
the model had been enhanced, reaching an accuracy of 
93.3%. The following figure shows the confusion matrix of 
this high-accuracy trained model. 
 
              Fig. 6 Confusion Matrix 
 
Some of the parameters that the confusion matrix show are 
the bearings recall of the model = 94.2% , misalignment 
recall of the model= 96.8%, normal-condition recall of the 
model= 92.7%, unbalance recall of the model= 89.97% 
Proceedings of NILES2025:
7th Novel Intelligent and Leading Emerging Sciences Conference
484
Authorized licensed use limited to: FUNDACAO UNIVERSIDADE DO RIO GRANDE. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 15:38:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.


===== PAGE 4 =====

C. Feature Ranking Algorithm for dimensionality reduction 
As one of the aims of this study is to maintain the high 
performance of the model with the least possible number of 
features to reduce overfitting, achieve generalization and 
reduce 
prediction 
time, 
two 
main 
techniques 
are 
implemented; the first technique is extracting features from 
data of the x-axis only and exclude the y-axis and the z axis 
data. The second technique involves applying a feature 
ranking algorithm called ReliefF algorithm so that all the 
statistical features that are utilized in the majority of the 
papers will be reduced according to their significance as 
indicated by the ranking scores. Those ranking scores will be 
provided by the ReliefF algorithm. This algorithm was 
proposed previously by [7]. Briefly, ReliefF estimates feature 
importance by examining each sample and its closest 
neighbors so that features that keep samples of the same class 
close while separating those from different classes are 
assigned higher weights, whereas less informative features 
receive lower weights. Features score rankings were as 
follows: 
TABLE II Features Ranking 
Rank 
Feature Name 
Importance Score 
1 
Shape Factor 
0.3912 
2 
RMS 
0.3083 
3 
Standard deviation 
0.3066 
4 
Mean 
0.2728 
5 
Peak to peak 
0.2402 
6 
Maximum 
0.2402 
7 
Skewness 
0.0561 
8 
Crest Factor 
0.0333 
9 
Impulse Factor 
0.0333 
10 
Kurtosis 
0.0301 
11 
Minimum 
0.0000 
 
According to table II, only the first seven features will be 
selected to retrain the model and analyze its performance 
when the dimension of the model’s hyperplane reduced from 
(4000, 11) to (4000, 7). To validate the new model’s 
performance, some of the data was prepared separately and 
fed to the model to predict their nature.  
 
TABLE III Test Results 
Model Type 
SVM 
SVM 
# of Features 
11 
7 
Time Elapsed/ms 
24 
19 
Accuracy 
93.3 % 
93.3 % 
The table shows that the model’s prediction was much faster 
(down from 24 ms to 19 ms) which is a recognizable change 
regarding edge-implementations. 
V. CONCLUSION 
This study focuses on diagnosing motor faults, 
particularly bearing failures, which account for about 40% of 
motor issues, through predictive maintenance. It targets early 
detection by identifying root causes like shaft misalignment 
and unbalance, using vibration signals analyzed by a Support 
Vector Machine (SVM) model. The SVM model achieved a 
93.3% accuracy in classifying water pump conditions using 
11 common features. To improve generalization and 
prediction speed, a two-stage dimensionality reduction 
strategy was applied: using only x-axis vibration data and 
selecting top-ranked features via the ReliefF algorithm. This 
approach retained high accuracy while significantly reducing 
the number of features compared to [3]. Compared to the 
benchmark study [3], which used the same dataset and 
classifier with 27 features, this study reduces the input to just 
7 features by utilizing single-axis vibration data (instead of 
triaxial vibrational data), and applying the ReliefF algorithm 
to take into account the most important features only. Despite 
a slight reduction in accuracy, the model maintained a high 
93.3% classification performance while achieving a 20.8% 
improvement in prediction speed (reducing latency from 
24 ms to 19 ms). This time reduction, though seemingly 
small, is significant in industrial settings where large volumes 
of sensor data must be processed in real time. This 
demonstrates a key contribution: developing a lightweight, 
efficient SVM-based diagnostic model suitable for real-time, 
edge-deployable predictive maintenance without sacrificing 
diagnostic reliability. 
VI. ACKNOWLEGEMENT 
I would like to express my deepest gratitude to Dr. 
Khaled ElGeneidy for his exceptional guidance, mentorship, 
and continuous support throughout this project. His expertise, 
encouragement, and constructive feedback have been pivotal 
in its successful completion and in shaping my academic and 
professional growth. I am also sincerely thankful to Eng. 
Mohamed Wahba from ElSewedy Electric for generously 
sharing his expertise in vibration analysis, which provided 
valuable insights and greatly enriched the technical depth of 
this work. Finally, I acknowledge Spectro Systems Company 
for offering the industrial exposure that initially inspired this 
project. 
VII. REFERENCES 
 
[1] 
M. Vaibhav, A. Kalhapure, and R. R. Navthar, “Vibration Analysis and Fault 
Diagnosis of Induction Motor Bearing Using Artificial Neural Network (ANN),” 
Int. J. Eng. Tech., vol. 2, [Online]. Available: http://www.ijetjournal.org. 
[2] 
E. L. Bonaldi et al., “Predictive Maintenance by Electrical Signature Analysis to 
Induction Motors,” Induction Mot. - Model. Control, Nov. 2012, doi: 
10.5772/48045. 
[3] 
B. T. Atmaja, H. Ihsannur, Suyanto, and D. Arifianto, “Lab-Scale Vibration 
Analysis Dataset and Baseline Methods for Machinery Fault Diagnosis with 
Machine Learning,” J. Vib. Eng. Technol., 2023, doi: 10.1007/s42417-023-00959-
9. 
[4] 
D. Goyal and B. S. Pabla, “The Vibration Monitoring Methods and Signal 
Processing Techniques for Structural Health Monitoring: A Review,” Arch. 
Comput. Methods Eng., vol. 23, no. 4, pp. 585–594, 2016, doi: 10.1007/s11831-
015-9145-0. 
[5] 
M. Sonowal, B. B. Gogoi, M. Boruah, and J. Kumar Barman, “Health Monitoring 
of Induction Motor through Vibration Analysis,” ADBU J. Electr. Electron. Eng. 
|, vol. 3, no. 1, 2019, Accessed: Jul 09, 2023. [Online]. Available: 
www.tinyurl.com/ajeee-adbu. 
[6] 
O. Mey, W. Neudeck, A. Schneider, and O. Enge-Rosenblatt, “Machine Learning-
Based Unbalance Detection of a Rotating Shaft Using Vibration Data,” IEEE Int. 
Conf. Emerg. Technol. Fact. Autom. ETFA, vol. 2020-September, pp. 1610–1617, 
2020, doi: 10.1109/ETFA46521.2020.9212000. 
[7] 
A. M. Umbrajkaar, A. Krishnamoorthy, and R. B. Dhumale, “Vibration Analysis 
of Shaft Misalignment Using Machine Learning Approach under Variable Load 
Conditions,” Shock Vib., vol. 2020, 2020, doi: 10.1155/2020/1650270. 
[8] 
L. A. Pinedo-Sánchez, D. A. Mercado-Ravell, and C. A. Carballo-Monsivais, 
“Vibration analysis in bearings for failure prevention using CNN,” J. Brazilian 
Soc. Mech. Sci. Eng., vol. 42, no.12, 2020, doi: 10.1007/s40430-020-02711-w. 
[9] 
P. Kumar and A. S. Hati, “Review on Machine Learning Algorithm Based Fault 
Detection in Induction Motors,” Arch. Comput. Methods Eng., vol. 28, no. 3, pp. 
1929–1940, 2021, doi: 10.1007/s11831-020-09446-w. 
[10]     B. Lu, D. B. Durocher and P. Stemper, "Predictive maintenance     techniques," in IEEE 
Industry Applications Magazine, vol. 15, no. 6, pp. 52-60, November-December 
2009, doi: 10.1109/MIAS.2009.934444. 
[11] 
 
 
Ifm, 
“Vibration 
Technology 
| 
Frequency 
Domain 
- 
ifm.” 
https://www.ifm.com/us/en/us/real-time-
maintenance/vibration/technology/frequency-domain (accessed Jul. 15, 2023). 
[12]        H. Morton, “Spectrum analysis,” J. Franklin Inst., vol. 88, no. 1, pp. 56–62, 1869, 
doi: 10.1016/s0016-0032(69)90237-3. 
 
 
Proceedings of NILES2025:
7th Novel Intelligent and Leading Emerging Sciences Conference
485
Authorized licensed use limited to: FUNDACAO UNIVERSIDADE DO RIO GRANDE. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 15:38:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
