

===== PAGE 1 =====

5044
IEEE SENSORS JOURNAL, VOL. 25, NO. 3, 1 FEBRUARY 2025
Cloud–Edge Collaborative Intelligent Fault
Diagnosis of Rotor-Bearing System:
Methodology and Experiment
Hongwei Fan , Member, IEEE, Haowen Xu , Wei Fan, Buran Chen , Qingshan Li ,
Teng Zhang , Xiangang Cao , and Xuhui Zhang , Member, IEEE
Abstract—The condition monitoring and fault diagnosis of
rotor-bearing systems are crucial for rotating machinery. The
traditional methods rely on either a single edge computing
of limited data processing capabilities or a single cloud
computing of large data transmission volumes. In this article,
a novel monitoring and diagnosis framework for rotor-bearing
systems is proposed by combining cloud and edge comput-
ing. First, a cloud–edge collaborative diagnosis architecture
is designed, where data acquisition, signal processing, and
feature extraction are assigned to the edge end, and a
deep learning-based diagnosis task is assigned to the cloud
end. The edge ends collect acceleration and displacement
signals in real time through piezoelectric and eddy current
sensors and uses empirical mode decomposition (EMD) and
time–frequency feature extraction to realize preliminary fea-
ture expression of the obtained signals. Second, the feature
data are sent to the cloud end from the edge end, where an
improved 1-D residual network (1D-ResNet) is used to clas-
sify the feature data and realize data-driven fault diagnosis.
To verify the effectiveness of the methodology, a cloud–edge collaborative fault diagnosis system is developed, including
a rotor-bearing unit simulation platform, an edge-end condition monitoring device, and a cloud-end diagnosis and
visualization platform. The results show that the cloud–edge collaborative fault diagnosis method and system excel
in terms of accuracy and real-time performance, where the accuracy reaches 99.9% at 1400 r/min and the consuming
time is about 1.4 s.
Index Terms— Cloud–edge collaboration, empirical mode decomposition (EMD), fault diagnosis, feature extraction,
residual network (ResNet), rotor-bearing system.
I. INTRODUCTION
T
HE intelligent fault diagnosis of mechanical equipment
has become an important means to ensure the safe
Received 9 October 2024; accepted 4 December 2024. Date of publi-
cation 13 December 2024; date of current version 31 January 2025. This
work was supported in part by the National Natural Science Foundation
of China under Grant 52275131, in part by the Special Project of
Shaanxi Provincial Department of Education for Local Service under
Grant 23JC052, and in part by the “Scientist and Engineer” Team
Construction Project of Shaanxi Qin Chuang Yuan under Grant
2024QCY-KXJ-164. The associate editor coordinating the review of
this article and approving it for publication was Dr. Zhiliang Liu.
(Corresponding author: Hongwei Fan.)
Hongwei Fan, Haowen Xu, Buran Chen, Qingshan Li, Teng Zhang,
Xiangang Cao, and Xuhui Zhang are with the College of Mechanical
Engineering, Xi’an University of Science and Technology, Xi’an 710054,
China
(e-mail:
hw_fan@xust.edu.cn;
haowen_xu@stu.xust.edu.cn;
brown_chen@stu.xust.edu.cn; qingshan_li@stu.xust.edu.cn; teng_z@
stu.xust.edu.cn; caoxg@xust.edu.cn; zhangxh@xust.edu.cn).
Wei Fan is with the Anhui Linkedti Technology Company Ltd., Hefei
230088, China (e-mail: wei.fan@linkedti.com).
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/JSEN.2024.3513644
and stable operation of a production system in the context
of the fourth industrial revolution and the rapid develop-
ment of artificial intelligence technology [1]. As the core
component of rotating machinery, the operating status of a
rotor-bearing system directly affects the performance and life
of the entire equipment and may even cause serious safety
accidents [2]. Thus, using artificial intelligence technology to
realize mechanical fault diagnosis is of great significance to the
safe production and reliable operation of industrial equipment.
The development of cloud computing and edge computing
has provided new solutions for intelligent fault diagnosis.
Cloud computing has powerful data storage and processing
capabilities and can perform in-depth analysis of massive
amounts of data [3]. It usually uploads the collected on-site
equipment status data to a cloud server, which completes
a large number of computing tasks and displays the results
remotely or sends them to the site [4]. With the development
of intelligent diagnosis technology, the number of on-site
machines and sensors is quickly increasing. The process of
1558-1748 © 2024 IEEE. All rights reserved, including rights for text and data mining, and training of artificial intelligence
and similar technologies. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: FUNDACAO UNIVERSIDADE DO RIO GRANDE. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 15:57:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.


===== PAGE 2 =====

FAN et al.: CLOUD–EDGE COLLABORATIVE INTELLIGENT FAULT DIAGNOSIS OF ROTOR-BEARING SYSTEM
5045
uploading original data to the cloud end will generate PB-level
or even ZB-level data capacity, which can easily lead to
some problems such as high latency, large data loss, and
serious network blockage [5]. As a supplement to cloud
computing, edge computing can process original data in a
timely manner near the machine, reducing data transmission
delays and bandwidth consumption [6]. However, the limited
computing ability of edge devices sometimes makes it difficult
to support complex data processing [7]. The cloud–edge
collaborative scheme combines the advantages of both and
provides a more scientific and efficient solution for intelligent
fault diagnosis [8]. Xiang et al. [9], in order to solve the
problem of difficult and time-consuming fault diagnosis of the
transformer, extracted its features using principal component
analysis (PCA) at the edge end, and deployed extreme gradient
boosting (XGBoost) model at the cloud end for state identi-
fication, which realizes the transformer monitoring and fault
diagnosis based on cloud–edge collaboration. Chen et al. [10]
proposed a cloud–edge collaborative deep learning scheme
for infrared thermal images to carry out intelligent fault
diagnosis of electrical equipment. Ren et al. [11] proposed
a cloud–edge collaborative monitoring and diagnostic method
to deal with the problems of fault data missing and imbal-
ance, which proved the effectiveness of the proposed method.
Sima et al. [12] proposed a cloud–edge collaborative method
based on transfer learning and federated learning, which solves
the problem of fault diagnosis of power lines. In summary,
cloud–edge collaboration is an effective manner for equipment
fault diagnosis.
For rotor-bearing system fault diagnosis, when a data-driven
approach is used [13], the equipment status can be charac-
terized by different signals, such as vibration [14], infrared
thermal imaging [15], and sound [16], and the fault diag-
nosis can be achieved by analyzing and processing these
signals or using the machine learning method. In recent
years, with the gradual application of deep learning in the
field of mechanical fault diagnosis [17], it is expected to
improve the fault diagnosis capability of mechanical equip-
ment. Sun et al. [18] proposed a bearing fault diagnosis
method based on empirical mode decomposition (EMD) and
improved Chebyshev distance. Shao et al. [19] proposed a
transfer learning and improved convolutional neural network
(CNN)-based fault diagnosis method for rotor-bearing systems
under variable conditions, in which the infrared thermal image
was used to characterize the health condition of the equipment.
Wang et al. [20] proposed a fault diagnosis method based
on variational mode decomposition (VMD)-Hilbert spectrum
and ShuffleNet-V2, which solves the problem of difficulty in
extracting the fault characteristics of gears affected by coal
flow load and power frequency. Zeng et al. [21] proposed
a fault diagnosis method for belt conveyor rolling bearings
based on CGM-MobileNet, which overcomes the diagnostic
challenges of rolling bearings under various operating con-
ditions and high noise interference. Xin et al. [22] proposed
an infrared thermal image-based improved Gaussian convo-
lutional deep belief network (GCDBN) for intelligent fault
diagnosis of rotor-bearing systems at variable speeds. Hong-
wei et al. [23] used an information fused EMD-polar angle
adaptive distribution of vibration images with CNN and
support vector machine (SVM) for feature extraction and
data classification to realize compound fault diagnosis of a
rotor-bearing system. Yuan et al. [24] proposed a fault diag-
nosis method for multichannel rotor-bearing systems based
on multistructure collaborative discriminant embedding, which
improves the performance of the fault diagnosis model.
In addition, Fan et al. [25], [26] converted the vibration signals
into grayscale texture images, and investigated the intelligent
fault diagnosis method for the rotor-bearing system of variable
duty motors in terms of improving the model generalization
ability and lightweight. In summary, it can be seen that signal
processing combined with deep learning methods can realize
the accurate fault diagnosis of mechanical equipment.
The cloud–edge collaboration provides a new solution
for fault diagnosis of mechanical equipment, which utilizes
the advantages of edge computing and cloud computing,
respectively, to make the diagnosis process more accurate
and efficient. In this article, a cloud–edge collaborative
intelligent fault diagnosis framework is proposed for rotor-
bearing systems. EMD-based vibration signal analysis with
time–frequency feature extraction and improved 1-D residual
network (1D-ResNet) is investigated, which reduces the trans-
mission amount of data between the edge end and the cloud
end while ensuring accuracy and improving efficiency. On this
basis, a set of edge computing and cloud service platforms
suitable for online monitoring and fault diagnosis is developed,
and the corresponding algorithms are integrated into the edge
device and cloud server to realize cloud–edge collaborative
intelligent fault diagnosis of the rotor-bearing system.
This article is organized as follows. Section II builds
the cloud–edge collaborative fault diagnosis framework.
Section III introduces the algorithms and datasets used in this
work. Section IV performs the experimental validation of fault
diagnosis algorithms. Section V performs the deployment of
the algorithms and system test, and finally, the conclusion is
provided in Section VI.
II. FRAMEWORK OF CLOUD–EDGE COLLABORATIVE
FAULT DIAGNOSIS
The cloud–edge collaborative platform designed in this
study is shown in Fig. 1. The edge end is responsible for
collecting data, executing signal processing, and transmit-
ting data to the cloud end. The cloud end is responsible
for managing the data from the edge end, executing the
fault diagnosis, and sending the results to the site. The
cloud and edge work together to accomplish the online fault
diagnosis task of a rotor-bearing system. The solution can
make full use of distributed computing resources to achieve
localized processing of monitored data and reduce the bur-
den of cloud computing while improving data security and
privacy.
A. Edge-End Scheme
As shown in Fig. 1, the hardware devices [6] at the
edge end mainly include sensors, conditioning circuits, A/D
Authorized licensed use limited to: FUNDACAO UNIVERSIDADE DO RIO GRANDE. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 15:57:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.


===== PAGE 3 =====

5046
IEEE SENSORS JOURNAL, VOL. 25, NO. 3, 1 FEBRUARY 2025
Fig. 1. Cloud–edge collaborative framework of fault diagnosis.
conversion units, microprocessors, and wireless transmission
modules, in order to realize signal acquisition, edge com-
puting, and data transmission. Signal acquisition is realized
by sensors, conditioning circuits, and A/D conversion units.
The sensors include piezoelectric sensors (Model 608A11, IMI
SENSORS Inc.) and eddy current sensors (OD900503-03-03-
50-00, OUDUO Ltd.), which acquire vibration acceleration
and displacement signals, respectively. The conditioning cir-
cuits mainly consist of coupling capacitors to remove the dc
bias from the excitation source required for sensor operation.
The A/D conversion unit is mainly composed of an A/D
converter chip (AD7606, Analog Devices Inc.) and peripheral
circuits to realize the conversion of analog signals to digital
signals. The edge computation is realized by a microcontroller
unit (MCU; STM32F407, STMicroelectronics Inc.), which
mainly completes the execution of signal processing and
feature extraction algorithms. The AD7606 and MCU are
connected to each other using serial peripheral interface (SPI)
communication. The data transmission is implemented using
a Wi-Fi module (ESP-01, Ai-Thinker Ltd.), which realizes
the bidirectional data sending between the edge end and the
cloud end.
B. Cloud-End Scheme
As shown in Fig. 1, the cloud platform (Linkedti Ltd.)
consists of data management, a rule engine, and decision
suggestions. The data management section stores, recalls,
and displays signal waveform results of multiple measur-
ing points from the edge end and can analyze the signal
spectrum of the original data and display the data features
obtained from the edge end. The rule engine mainly carries
out fault diagnosis, fetches feature data and sends them to the
classification model for fault inference to get the predicted
labels, in which the classification model is a deep learning
model trained in advance. The decision suggestion is based
Fig. 2. Flowchart of fault diagnosis algorithm.
on the prediction label obtained by the rule engine to give
the fault diagnosis results and then send the disposal decision
to the site, thus realizing the cloud–edge collaborative fault
diagnosis.
III. ALGORITHMS AND DATASETS OF CLOUD–EDGE
COLLABORATIVE FAULT DIAGNOSIS
The algorithms in this study are divided into two parts, i.e.,
signal processing and deep learning. The signal processing
includes EMD and time–frequency feature extraction, which is
done at the edge end. The deep learning model is 1D-ResNet,
which is done at the cloud end. As shown in Fig. 2, it is a
flowchart of the cloud–edge collaborative fault diagnosis tech-
nology. The original signal is collected at the edge end. The
preparation of the feature set is completed by performing EMD
and time–frequency domain feature extraction on the original
signals, splicing the features, and performing normalization
operations. The diagnostic model construction is completed
by training the deep learning model using the feature set
prepared at the edge end. The edge-end algorithms and the
cloud-end model are deployed on the edge device and cloud
server, respectively, to realize cloud–edge collaborative fault
diagnosis of a rotor-bearing system. It is worth noting that,
as indicated by the dotted line in Fig. 2, the normalization
parameters used for diagnosis come from the normalization
parameters used when the algorithm was built.
Authorized licensed use limited to: FUNDACAO UNIVERSIDADE DO RIO GRANDE. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 15:57:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.


===== PAGE 4 =====

FAN et al.: CLOUD–EDGE COLLABORATIVE INTELLIGENT FAULT DIAGNOSIS OF ROTOR-BEARING SYSTEM
5047
A. Edge-End Signal Processing
1) EMD Algorithm: EMD [27] is an adaptive analysis
algorithm for nonlinear, nonstationary time series signals,
whose core idea is to decompose the signal into a number
of intrinsic mode functions (IMFs) and a residual component.
Each IMF represents a different frequency component of the
signal, and the residual component represents the trend of the
signal.
The EMD of the edge-end signal is as follows:
x(t) =
k
X
i=1
IMFi(t) + rk(t)
(1)
where x(t) is the original signal; IMFi(t)(i = 1, 2, . . . , k)
is the EMD effective component; and rk(t) is the residual
component.
The specific steps of EMD are as follows [27], [28].
Step 1: Find all maximum and minimum values from the
original signal.
Step 2: Using the cubic spline interpolation method, the
upper envelope emax(t) is constructed through all local max-
imum points, and similarly, the lower envelope emin(t) is
constructed through all local minimum points.
Step 3: Calculate the mean values of the upper and lower
envelopes to obtain the mean mi(t)
mi(t) = (emax(t) + emin(t))/2.
(2)
Step 4: Extract the IMF and subtract the mean from the
original signal to obtain a new signal hi(t)
hi(t) = x(t) −mi(t).
(3)
Step 5: Check whether hi(t) satisfies the IMF termination
condition and, if so, hi(t) is recorded as an IMF component.
Otherwise, treat hi(t) as a new signal and repeat the above
steps until the termination condition is satisfied. The modal
function IMFi(t) is
IMFi(t) = hi(t).
(4)
Step 6: Use the original signal to subtract the modal function
to get a new residual component ri(t)
ri(t) = x(t) −IMFi(t).
(5)
Step 7: Replace x(t) in Step 1 with ri(t), and repeat the
above steps until the second IMF component IMFk(t) or the
residual component rk(t) therefore is less than a predetermined
value. Alternatively, the EMD process terminates when the
residual component rk(t) is a monotonic function or a constant.
The layer number of EMD and the threshold of the residual
component are set in advance at the edge end, and the
information of the original signal in different frequency bands
is obtained by EMD, which lays a foundation for feature
extraction.
2) Feature Extraction Algorithm: The edge-end features
include 15 time-domain features and five frequency-domain
features [29], where the time-domain metrics are shown in
Table I. Frequency-domain feature extraction requires a fast
Fourier transform (FFT) of the original signal and then
the power spectrum; the power spectrum is used to obtain
TABLE I
TIME-DOMAIN CHARACTERISTIC PARAMETERS AND THEIR FORMULAS
the frequency-domain features, and the formula is shown
in Table II. Time-domain features reflect the changes in the
signal over time and can detect the instantaneous changes or
shocks in the signal. The frequency-domain features reflect
the changes in the signal over the spectrum and can be used
to analyze the periodicity of the signal, the harmonic com-
ponents, and the changes in the frequency components [30].
Considering the influence of working conditions and fault sen-
sitivity, two types of quantitative and dimensionless indicators
are selected [31].
The time-domain features in Table I form a vector TF
TF =

xmax, |x|max, xmin, ¯x, xPP, |x|, RMS
xr, σ, xK, xS, M, W, I, C

.
(6)
The frequency-domain features in Table II form a vector
FF = [CF, MF, RMSF, VF, PSE], which is spliced with TF to
form the final feature vector F = [TF, FF].
B. Cloud-End CNN Modeling
ResNet as a CNN model is designed to solve the problems
of gradient vanishing or exploding and convolutional network
degradation due to increasing network depth [32]. In a normal
convolutional network, the input passed to the next layer is
H(x) = F(x) and is directly fit to H(x). In ResNet, the input
passed to the next layer becomes H(x) = F(x) + x and the
Authorized licensed use limited to: FUNDACAO UNIVERSIDADE DO RIO GRANDE. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 15:57:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.


===== PAGE 5 =====

5048
IEEE SENSORS JOURNAL, VOL. 25, NO. 3, 1 FEBRUARY 2025
TABLE II
FREQUENCY-DOMAIN CHARACTERISTIC PARAMETERS
AND THEIR FORMULAS
Fig. 3. Structure of residual block.
residuals are fit to F(x) = H(x) −x. The residual block does
the constant mapping on the one hand, and on the other hand
fits the residuals relative to the original network, correcting
the bias of the original network without making the network
fit the full underlying mapping. The essence of ResNet is that
the network learns that the layer parameters are redundant,
it can directly choose to skip the redundant layers and the
deeper network will not be worse than the shallow network
after adding the constant mapping [33]. The structure of the
residual block is shown in Fig. 3.
Constant mapping is applied to each stacked layer using
residual learning, and the residual block formula is defined as
y = F(x, {Wi}) + x
(7)
where x and y are the input and output of the residual block,
respectively; and F(x, {Wi}) is the residual mapping to be
learned. If the dimensions of F(x, {Wi}) and x do not match,
they need to be matched by an execution square or a linear
projection Ws
y = F(x, {Wi}) + Wsx.
(8)
The classification model at the cloud end uses 1D-ResNet.
Inputs of 1D-ResNet are 1-D vectors, and the convolu-
tion kernel and feature vectors are also in 1-D form [34].
1D-CNN is more suitable for dealing with 1-D time-series
data. 1D-ResNet mainly consists of an input layer, a convo-
lutional layer, a pooling layer, a batch normalization layer,
a fully connected layer, and an output layer.
The convolutional layer is the core part of the CNN.
It performs a convolution operation on the feature vectors of
the previous layer through convolution to obtain corresponding
features and uses a nonlinear activation function to construct
new output features. The output of each layer is the convolu-
tion result of multiple input features, and the formula is
yl+1
i
(k) = Wl
i ∗xl(k) + bl
i
(9)
where Wl
i is the weight of the ith convolution kernel in layer l;
xl(k) is the kth local region feature to be convolved in layer l;
bl
i is the bias of the ith convolution kernel in layer l; yl+1
i
(k) is
the output of the kth neuron after the ith convolution operation
in layer l, i.e., it is used as the input of layer l + 1; and ∗
denotes the dot-product operation of the convolution kernel
and the local region.
After completing the convolution operation, the activation
function performs a nonlinear transformation of the convolu-
tion output. ReLU function is used as the activation function,
denoted as
zl+1
i
(k) = max

0, yl+1
i
(k)
	
(10)
where zl+1
i
(k) is the output of convolution operation and
zl+1
i
(k) is the activation value of yl+1
i
(k).
The pooling layer is used to reduce the size of the feature
vectors, and computational complexity and prevent overfitting.
The input feature vectors are downsampled to extract the main
features. Maximum pooling is used, denoted as
pk
i = max xk
ab(a, b ∈Ri)
(11)
where Ri is the pooling region, xk
ab is the neurons in the
pooling region, and pk
i is the kth feature mapping output of
the pooling operation.
The batch normalization layer is used to speed up the
training process of the network and improve its stability by
normalizing the inputs of each layer to suppress the problem
of vanishing or exploding gradients. The batch normalization
is denoted as
ql
i = γ l
 
xl
i −µl
p
(σ l)2 + ε
!
+ βl
(12)
where xl
i is the input; µl and (σ l)2 are the mean and variance
of the input, respectively; γ l and βl are the scaling and
translation parameters, respectively; ql
i is the batch normalized
output; and ε is a very small constant.
The fully connected layer transforms the output of the last
pooling layer and maps the input to get a vector. The fully
connected layer is
ul+1( j) = f
 W l
i j(m)zl
i(m) + bl
i

(13)
where W l
i j(m) is the weight value between the mth neuron
of the ith channel of the lth layer and the output neuron of
the jth channel of layer l + 1 is the output value of the mth
neuron of the ith channel of the previous layer, zl
i(m) is the
bias of the network, ul+1( j) is the output value of the mth
neuron of the jth channel, and f (·) is the activation function.
The output layer uses softmax as the classifier. The structure
of 1D-ResNet is shown in Fig. 4. Experimental validation of
fault diagnosis algorithms.
Authorized licensed use limited to: FUNDACAO UNIVERSIDADE DO RIO GRANDE. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 15:57:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.


===== PAGE 6 =====

FAN et al.: CLOUD–EDGE COLLABORATIVE INTELLIGENT FAULT DIAGNOSIS OF ROTOR-BEARING SYSTEM
5049
Fig. 4. Structure of 1D-ResNet.
TABLE III
MAIN PARAMETERS OF THE EXPERIMENTAL PLATFORM
Fig. 5. Fault simulation platform of rotor-bearing system.
C. Experimental Platform Development
The experimental platform used is shown in Fig. 5, and
it consists of a motor, a shaft system, a gearbox, a brake,
and a control cabinet, and the main parameters are shown in
Table III. As shown in Fig. 5, the faults simulated are located
in the shaft system, in which the rolling bearing fault is set
at the bearing near the drive end and the rotor fault is set
on the disk. As shown in Fig. 6(a)–(c), the fault types of
the rotor-bearing system include inner ring fault, outer ring
fault, and rolling element fault of rolling bearing, as well as
the normal state. Inner and outer ring faults are fabricated as
rectangular grooves across the raceways, and rolling element
fault is produced by laser ablation. Rotor faults include rotor
imbalance (RI) and rub-impact, where RI is generated by
screwing six screws of the same material and size in the disk,
and rub-impact is realized by touching between the copper
screws on the stationary holder and the rotating disk, as shown
in Fig. 6(d) and (e).
The parameters of the data acquisition system are shown in
Table IV. The sampling rate is set to 6000 Hz, the number of
sampling points is set to 102 400, and the sampling duration
is 17.07 s.
Fig. 6.
Fault scheme of rotor-bearing system. (a) Inner ring fault
(BI). (b) Outer ring fault (BO). (c) Ball fault (BB). (d) RI. (e) Rotor
rub-impact (RR).
TABLE IV
MAIN PARAMETERS OF DATA ACQUISITION SYSTEM
D. Dataset Construction
In the experiment, the motor speeds were 700 and
1400 r/min, and no load and 25 N·m load were simulated
by setting 0 and 0.5 A currents to the magnetic brake. The
typical data collected are shown in Fig. 7. Five groups of data
are collected for each fault type and each working condition,
and the length of a single group of data is 2048, so the number
of samples for each fault type and each working condition is
250, and the total number of samples is 2 × 6 × 250 = 3000.
This experiment uses the load-related input strategy and
unlabeled load output strategy. The load types include no
load and a load of 25 N·m. The 3000 samples were divided
Authorized licensed use limited to: FUNDACAO UNIVERSIDADE DO RIO GRANDE. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 15:57:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.


===== PAGE 7 =====

5050
IEEE SENSORS JOURNAL, VOL. 25, NO. 3, 1 FEBRUARY 2025
Fig. 7.
Time-domain waveform of original signal. (a) No load and 1400 r/min. (b) 25 N·m and 1400 r/min. (c) No load and 700 r/min. (d) 25 N·m
and 700 r/min.
into datasets A and B. Dataset A contains 400 samples for
each fault type, totaling 2400 samples. Dataset B contains
100 samples of each fault type, totaling 600 samples. Divide
the samples in dataset A into a training set and a test set for
model training and test. Use dataset B for the test only to
simulate the data collected at the edge end.
IV. VALIDATION OF CLOUD–EDGE COLLABORATIVE
FAULT DIAGNOSIS METHOD
A. Edge-End Signal Processing
When making feature samples, the original data are first
decomposed by EMD to obtain multiple IMF components;
then, the time–frequency features are extracted sequentially
from each component, and finally, the features are spliced after
being spread out in the order of components to obtain the
feature vector. If the number of decomposition layers is n, the
length of the final feature vector is n times the length of the
vector obtained by direct feature extraction of original data.
1) EMD of Tested Data: Taking the bearing inner ring fault
at 1400 r/min as an example, the number of decomposition
layers is set to 5, the IMF components obtained are shown in
Fig. 8(a), and Fig. 8(b) shows the FFT results of the original
signal and its components. From Fig. 8(a), it can be seen that
the time-domain waveform of IMF1 is close to that of the
original signal, and with the increase of the number of decom-
position layers, the time-domain waveform of the component
gradually tends to flatten. From Fig. 8(b), it can be seen that
with the increase of the number of decomposition layers, the
frequency bands in the spectrum of the component change
from high frequency to low frequency, and the bandwidths
Authorized licensed use limited to: FUNDACAO UNIVERSIDADE DO RIO GRANDE. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 15:57:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.


===== PAGE 8 =====

FAN et al.: CLOUD–EDGE COLLABORATIVE INTELLIGENT FAULT DIAGNOSIS OF ROTOR-BEARING SYSTEM
5051
Fig. 8.
EMD results for bearing inner ring fault. (a) Time-domain
waveform of IMF components. (b) FFT spectrum for IMF components.
add up to be approximately equal to the total width of the
frequency bands of the original signal.
2) Feature Extraction and Sample Construction: After the
above EMD, the IMF components are obtained, and 20
time–frequency feature values are extracted for these compo-
nents in turn. The feature vector extracted for each component
can be denoted as FIMFi, i.e.,
FIMFi =


xi
max, |x|i
max, xi
min, ¯xi, xi
PP, |x|
i, RMSi
xi
r, σ i, xi
K, xi
S, Mi, W i, I i, Ci, CFi
MFi, RMSFi, VFi, PSEi

.
(14)
The feature vectors extracted from all IMF components are
spliced sequentially, and then, the feature vector FSample for
each sample can be obtained, i.e.,
FSample = [FIMF1, FIMF2, . . . , FIMFn]
(15)
where n is the number of EMD layers.
According to the above, five-layer EMD, time–frequency
feature extraction, and feature vector splicing are performed
sequentially on the samples of six states in datasets A and B;
finally, feature sample sets AF and BF are obtained.
Fig. 9. Schematic of normalization operation.
In the feature datasets AF and BF, each feature sample vector
contains multiple features, and the different features differ in
dimension and order of magnitude. If the feature data are
directly fed into the model for training, it will result in certain
features having too much or too little influence on the training
process, thus affecting the convergence speed and stability
of the model. If each feature sample vector is normalized
according to its own, the differences between different features
cannot be eliminated. The normalization according to feature
dimensions can scale all features to the same magnitude so
that the model can better learn the relative importance of each
feature, and at the same time, it can inhibit the overfitting of
the model to certain features to a certain extent, and improve
the generalization of the model.
In this study, the feature samples are maximum–minimum
normalized
according
to
the
feature
dimensions,
such as
FNord( j) =
FSample( j) −max(FSample)
max(FSample) −min(FSample)
(16)
where j = 1, 2, . . . , 20 × n, in which n is the layer
number of EMD, and FNord( j) is the normalized feature
sample.
As shown in Fig. 9, taking the dataset AF as an example,
the feature samples (Sample 1, 2, . . . , m, where m = 2400) are
arranged in the way shown in the figure, and the maximum
and minimum values of features in each column are taken to
form the maximum value vector MAX and the minimum value
vector MIN. Then, the feature samples of the dataset AF are
normalized using the maximum and minimum value vectors
to obtain new feature samples (Nord_sample 1, 2, . . . , m,
where m = 2400). For the dataset BF, because of the small
number of samples, BF is normalized with the normalization
parameters MAX and MIN of the dataset AF in order to ensure
consistency with the feature distribution of the dataset AF and
that the feature space of the subsequent test model is uniform.
After datasets AF and BF are normalized as described above,
datasets AFN and BFN are finally obtained for subsequent
model training and test.
Authorized licensed use limited to: FUNDACAO UNIVERSIDADE DO RIO GRANDE. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 15:57:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.


===== PAGE 9 =====

5052
IEEE SENSORS JOURNAL, VOL. 25, NO. 3, 1 FEBRUARY 2025
TABLE V
PARAMETERS OF IMPROVED 1D-RESNET MODEL
Fig. 10. Accuracy and loss error of model training.
B. Cloud-End CNN Modeling
In order to ensure the accuracy and efficiency of fault
diagnosis, 1D-ResNet18 is used as the base classification
model. Since the time–frequency feature extraction has been
performed on the original signal, the number of convolutional
layers is reduced for the original 1D-ResNet18. It is found
that the model size is reduced from 14.80 to 1.79 MB while
reducing the convolutional layers, and the parameters of the
improved model are shown in Table V.
The dataset AFN is divided into a training set and test set
according to 7:3, and the number of samples is 1680 and 720,
respectively, to train the model. First, different hyperparameter
values are taken to train the model, and a set of more
appropriate hyperparameters is determined by combining the
stability and convergence speed of the training process and the
accuracy of the test set. After many times of parameter tuning,
the cross entropy is finally determined as the loss function, the
optimizer is Adam, the learning rate is 0.0001, the batch size is
64, and the number of training epochs is 20. Then, the model is
trained for five times using the determined hyperparameters,
and the error bands of the accuracy and loss are shown in
Fig. 10. It can be seen that the accuracy values of five training
epochs have a small fluctuation at the beginning and stabilizes
to 100% at the later stage, and the loss values have a small
fluctuation in general, and finally stabilizes to 0. The average
standard deviation of the accuracy and loss is calculated to be
0.00522 and 0.00752, which makes the model training more
stable.
The final epoch of the model for each training is tested using
the test set with an average accuracy of 99.9%. Meanwhile,
the model is comprehensively evaluated using the confusion
Fig. 11. Confusion matrix of test set.
TABLE VI
MODEL EVALUATION RESULTS
matrix, precision, recall, and F1-score, as shown in Fig. 11
and Table VI. From the confusion matrix, it can be seen
that only one rotor rub-impact sample is misclassified as RI,
and all other category samples are classified correctly. From
the evaluation metrics in Table VI, the precision, recall, and
F1-score for each category are very close to 100%. Looking
at the metrics of each category, for N, BI, BO, and BB, the
model reaches 100% in recall, precision, and F1-score. For
RI, the recall is 100% but the precision is 99.2%, indicating
that a small number of samples are misclassified as other
categories. For RR, the precision is 100% but the recall is
99.2%, indicating that a small number of samples in this
category are misclassified as other categories. It can be seen
that the overall performance of the proposed model in this
work is excellent on the task of classifying the state data of
the rotor-bearing system.
C. Comparative Analysis of Model Settings at 1400 r/min
Using dataset BFN to simulate actually collected data, the
sample length, layer number of EMD, and deep learning model
are varied to set up different schemes for comparative experi-
ments. The different schemes are evaluated by training curves,
confusion matrix, and t-SNE results. Here, the hyperparameter
values used for the model training are kept the same as in
Section IV-B.
In the comparative experiments, the sample length is set to
1024 and 2048, the layer number of EMD is set to 4, 5, and 6,
and the deep learning model is the original 1D-ResNet18
and its improved model. The initial settings are 1024, 4, and
Authorized licensed use limited to: FUNDACAO UNIVERSIDADE DO RIO GRANDE. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 15:57:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.


===== PAGE 10 =====

FAN et al.: CLOUD–EDGE COLLABORATIVE INTELLIGENT FAULT DIAGNOSIS OF ROTOR-BEARING SYSTEM
5053
TABLE VII
DESIGN OF COMPARATIVE EXPERIMENTS
TABLE VIII
ACCURACY VALUES OF COMPARATIVE EXPERIMENTS
1D-ResNet18. A layer-by-layer approach is taken, i.e., the
better result of the previous step is retained for use in the next
step, and a total of five different scenarios are set up, as shown
in Table VII. The diagnostic results of the five scenarios for
the sample BFN are shown in Table VIII. In each case, five
trainings are performed and the mean (Avg) and standard
deviation (Std) are calculated.
In Table VIII, the average accuracy of No.2 is 1.4% higher
than that of No.1, and the standard deviation of the accuracy
is lower, i.e., the model stability is improved, which proves
that when the sample length is 2048; the data contains more
information, and the feature differences between different
categories are amplified after feature extraction, while the
feature similarity among samples within each category is
increased. Comparing No.2–No.4, the average accuracy of
five-layer EMD is higher compared to those of 4 and 6,
reaching 99.7%, with the lower standard deviation and bet-
ter stability, proving that the feature dissimilarity between
different categories is amplified after five-layer EMD. If the
decomposition is insufficient, the differences between different
categories will not be sufficiently amplified, and the similarity
within categories will not be adequately reflected. If the
decomposition is excessive, the components at the back will
basically tend to be linear, amplifying the similarity between
different categories and resulting in a decrease in the accuracy
of classification. Comparing No.3 and No.5, the final average
accuracy and stability are further improved.
To further explain five comparative experiments, the training
error bands of each experiment are given, as shown in Fig. 12.
From Fig. 12(a)–(d), it can be seen that No.1–No.4 have
large fluctuations in accuracy and loss during model training,
and the model stability is poor, which can easily lead to a
decrease in the model generalization performance, which is
not conducive to site applications. From Fig. 12(e), it can be
seen that the training accuracy and loss of No.5 are stable,
indicating that No.5 has the most reasonable matching of each
Fig. 12.
Error bands for the model training process for the five sets of
experiments. (a) No.1. (b) No.2. (c) No.3. (d) No.4. (e) No.5.
parameter and high model stability, which is suitable for use
in practice.
The classification results for the dataset BFN are illustrated
by selecting the confusion matrix with the worst results in
each experiment, as shown in Fig. 13. Misclassification occurs
for the normal state, ball fault, and RI in Fig. 13(a), with
the worst misclassification occurring for RI. A small amount
of misclassification occurs for RI in Fig. 13(b). There are
individual samples misclassified in Fig. 13(c)–(e), which are
generally better. From Fig. 13(a), (b), and (d), it can be seen
that there are some samples of RI that are misclassified as
rotor rub-impact. From the data, the original data of the two
categories are more similar. From the model, rotor rub-impact
is given more weight. From Fig. 13(a) and (c) to (e), it can be
seen that there is a misclassification between the normal state
and ball fault, which indicates that there is a higher similarity
between data of the two categories, and the model is prone to
errors when recognizing the two categories of fault. From the
confusion matrix, Fig. 13(e) has the best performance, which
again proves that the parameter setting of No.5 is the most
reasonable.
In order to reveal the feature distributions of different
models, the feature distributions at three key positions are
downscaled to give t-SNE visualization results, as shown in
Fig. 14. No.X-A shows the feature distribution of the original
Authorized licensed use limited to: FUNDACAO UNIVERSIDADE DO RIO GRANDE. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 15:57:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.


===== PAGE 11 =====

5054
IEEE SENSORS JOURNAL, VOL. 25, NO. 3, 1 FEBRUARY 2025
Fig. 13.
Confusion matrix of different models for the five sets of
experiments. (a) No.1. (b) No.2. (c) No.3. (d) No.4. (e) No.5.
data input layer, and the feature distribution of No.1 is different
from the other models. No.X-B shows the feature distribution
of the model input layer, i.e., the sample feature distribu-
tion after signal processing and feature extraction. No.X-C
shows the model linear input layer feature distribution, i.e.,
the feature distribution after convolutional feature extraction.
Compared to No.X-A with No.X-B, the initial separation of
features can be completed, which verifies the effectiveness of
signal processing and feature extraction. Compared to No.X-B
with No.X-C, the convolutional layer carries out the secondary
feature extraction, which finally separates each category. The
results of No.2–No.5 are better than No.1, and there is no
obvious overlapping of their features, while the feature distri-
butions of the normal state, ball fault, RI, and rub-impact in
No.1 overlap. Compared to No.2-C with No.4-C, it can be seen
that there are individual samples with misclassification and
intersecting feature distributions, while from No.5-C, it can
be seen that the features are correctly separated, and the
classification effect is the best.
D. Comparative Analysis of Diagnostic Models at
1400 r/min
The proposed method is compared with other deep neu-
ral networks widely used in fault diagnosis. The input
Fig. 14.
Feature distributions using t-SNE: “A” represents the original
data input layer, “B” represents the model input layer, and “C” repre-
sents the model linear input layer. (a) No.1-A. (b) No.1-B. (c) No.1-C.
(d) No.2-A. (e) No.2-B. (f) No.2-C. (g) No.3-A. (h) No.3-B. (i) No.3-C.
(j) No.4-A. (k) No.4-B. (l) No.4-C. (m) No.5-A. (n) No.5-B. (o) No.5-C.
samples of different methods are all feature samples obtained
by signal processing and feature extraction of the original
data collected by the edge end. Seven different CNNs, i.e.,
LeNet-5 [35], AlexNet [36], VGG-19 [36], ResNet-18 [32],
DenseNet-121 [37], ShuffleNet-V2 [20], and MobileNet-V3
[21], are selected to compare their classification capabilities
on the same dataset. In the training, the learning rate is set
to 0.0001, the optimizer is Adam, the batch size is 64, and
the number of training epochs is 20. Each model is trained
five times, and the model obtained after the last epoch is
selected for each training, and its performance is verified on
Authorized licensed use limited to: FUNDACAO UNIVERSIDADE DO RIO GRANDE. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 15:57:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.


===== PAGE 12 =====

FAN et al.: CLOUD–EDGE COLLABORATIVE INTELLIGENT FAULT DIAGNOSIS OF ROTOR-BEARING SYSTEM
5055
TABLE IX
PERFORMANCE OF DIFFERENT MODELS AT 1400 r/min
the dataset BFN. Meantime, the parameters, FLOPs, model
size, and average test accuracy are analyzed.
The results are shown in Table IX. Except for LeNet-5, the
average accuracies of the other models are all above 95%.
On the one hand, it is verified that the LeNet-5 model with
a relatively simple structure cannot perform sufficient feature
extraction, resulting in a lower accuracy. On the other hand,
it proves that the original data have obtained better features
after signal processing and feature extraction at the edge end.
The proposed method has the best average accuracy, as well
as the lowest parameter and model size. Its performance is
also the most stable, with a standard deviation of 0.00093.
Although the ResNet-18 model has comparable accuracy to
the proposed method, its parameters, FLOPs, and model size
are higher than those of the proposed method.
E. Model Generalization Verification at a Lower Speed
The proposed method is further verified under a low speed
of 700 r/min and two loads of 0 and 25 N·m. The dataset
partitions, sample lengths, and EMD decomposition layers are
the same as those at 1400 r/min. In training, the learning rate
is set to 0.001, the optimizer is Adam, the batch size is 256,
the number of training epochs is 100, and the model is trained
five times. The average test accuracy reaches 94.8%, which is
a decrease of 5.1% compared to that at 1400 r/min, and the
standard deviation is 0.00380.
The training error band and confusion matrix are shown
in Fig. 15(a) and (b), respectively. When the speed drops to
700 r/min, it can be seen from Fig. 15(a) that the convergence
speed of the model slows down, and more training epochs are
required to make the accuracy and loss converge. The early
training curve appears to fluctuate, but the model eventually
converges stably, with the accuracy approaching 100% and
the loss approaching 0. As can be seen from Fig. 15(b), the
main categories that cause the model accuracy to decrease are
RI and RR, with most misclassified cases occurring between
these two, and a few misclassified cases occurring for N. The
t-SNE-based visualization results of the feature distributions
at the three key points are shown in Fig. 16(a)–(c). It can
be seen from Fig. 16(a) and (b) that the edge end has a
weaker feature extraction ability in distinguishing the features
of categories N and BB than that at 1400 r/min. It can be
seen from Fig. 16(b) and (c) that the feature distributions of
Fig. 15.
Model performance at 700 r/min. (a) Training error band.
(b) Confusion matrix.
Fig. 16. Feature distributions at 700 r/min using t-SNE. (a) Original data
input layer. (b) Model input layer. (c) Model linear input layer.
categories RI and RR overlap, while the other categories are
separated.
The results above at a lower speed show that the accuracy
of the proposed method varies. At 700 r/min, the mechanical
fault-induced vibration is weakened, and the feature extraction
effect is not as obvious as that at 1400 r/min, resulting in a
decrease in the model accuracy. Meanwhile, the model can still
converge to a high accuracy at 700 r/min, which proves that
the proposed method has a certain generalization capability at
different speeds.
V. VALIDATION OF CLOUD–EDGE COLLABORATIVE
SYSTEM
A. Edge-End Unit Verification
First, the edge-end algorithms are compiled with C code
on STM32Cube. Second, the edge-end hardware is developed,
and the code is burned into the hardware and debugged to the
ideal effect. In order to view the progress of edge computation,
a liquid crystal display (LCD) is used. As shown in Fig. 17,
LCD displays the numerical results, original signal waveform,
and feature sample.
B. Cloud-End Platform Verification
For the cloud-end test, first, the fault diagnosis rule shown in
Fig. 18(a) is established, where the labeled data module is the
feature sample uploaded from the edge end, the classification
model module is the source file mapping of the proposed
model, and the alarm module is the display of the fault
diagnosis results. The rule for cloud-end fault diagnosis is as
follows. The labeled data uploaded from the edge end are
sent to the classification model trained offline, and the fault
diagnosis alarm results are given by running the classification
Authorized licensed use limited to: FUNDACAO UNIVERSIDADE DO RIO GRANDE. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 15:57:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.


===== PAGE 13 =====

5056
IEEE SENSORS JOURNAL, VOL. 25, NO. 3, 1 FEBRUARY 2025
Fig. 17. Test results from LCD at edge end.
Fig. 18.
Fault diagnosis rule and results at cloud platform. (a) Fault
diagnosis rule at cloud platform. (b) Fault diagnosis results at cloud
platform.
model on the test data. The alarm page is shown in Fig. 18(b),
which can display feature data and fault diagnosis results, and
give corresponding alarms based on the fault diagnosis results.
C. Time-Consuming Test
Since the time-consuming process of cloud–edge collabora-
tive computing is mainly at the edge end, the time-consuming
process of the No.1–No.5 tests is tested. The time-consuming
procedures of the five models at different stages and the total
time-consuming procedures are shown in Fig. 19. The edge
computing process of No.3 and No.5 is the same, so only
one test is performed. T1 is the time taken by the MCU to
control the AD7606 to complete data acquisition, T2 is the
time taken to perform EMD processing, T3 is the time taken
for time–frequency feature extraction and normalization, and
T4 is the time taken to package the feature data into MQTT
Fig. 19. Time-consuming results of different models.
packets and perform the sending operation. The total time
taken for each model is the sum of T1–T4. Overall, the time
taken for the five models at different stages is stable. T1 shows
that the time taken for 2048 sampling points is twice that
taken for 1024 sampling points. T2 shows that the increase
in the number of EMD decomposition layers increases the
time taken by the program. T3 shows that the increase in IMF
components increases the time taken for feature extraction.
T4 shows that the increase in the amount of packaged data
increases the time taken by the program. It can be seen that
No.1 has the least total time consumption, and No.4 has the
most. In general, the total time consumption of the five models
is not much different, and the fault diagnosis results can be
obtained in about 1 s. Therefore, combined with the fault
diagnosis accuracy, No.5 is selected as the final model.
D. Anti-Noise Test
In practice, the engineering signal is affected by background
noise, so the anti-noise performance of the fault diagnosis
method needs to be tested. For the original signal, Gaussian
white noise with an SNR of 5 to −30 dB, a mean of 0,
and a variance of 1 is added sequentially. Five trainings are
performed using dataset A, and the average accuracy of the test
using dataset B is used as the evaluation metric. The results
are shown in Fig. 20. Overall, the average accuracy gradually
decreases as the noise intensity increases, and there is a small
fluctuation after adding noise. The average accuracy at an
SNR of 5 dB is 1.0% lower than that of the noise not added
(NA). When the noise intensity increases from 0 to −10 dB,
the accuracy rate decreases slightly. When the noise intensity
increases from −15 to −30 dB, the accuracy rate decreases
significantly. The test accuracy at −30 dB is 90.3%, meaning
that 58 of the 600 samples in dataset B are misclassified.
At −10-dB noise intensity, the average accuracy remained
above 95.0%. If the actual noise is greater, the signal should
be filtered before using the algorithms proposed.
E. Edge-End Energy Consumption Test
The energy consumption of the edge-end device is tested.
The power supply uses 24 V DC, and the measured result
is 23.97 V. By measuring the input current with an ammeter
in series at the power supply input, the input power of the
edge-end device during operation is calculated to be 2.924 W.
Authorized licensed use limited to: FUNDACAO UNIVERSIDADE DO RIO GRANDE. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 15:57:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.


===== PAGE 14 =====

FAN et al.: CLOUD–EDGE COLLABORATIVE INTELLIGENT FAULT DIAGNOSIS OF ROTOR-BEARING SYSTEM
5057
Fig. 20. Test average accuracy of samples with noise.
TABLE X
POWER CONSUMPTION OF EDGE-END DEVICE (UNIT: W)
Second, by controlling whether each module is working, the
power consumption of each module and the power consump-
tion of the edge-end device when performing edge computing
once are measured, as shown in Table X. The power con-
sumption of the edge-end device is mainly concentrated on the
MCU, ADC, DC–DC, and LCD. If the power consumption of
the edge-end device is controlled, the power consumption of
these modules can be controlled. For example, a low-power
mode can be used for the MCU, a step-down module with a
higher power conversion efficiency can be used, and the LCD
can be manually woken up when needed.
VI. CONCLUSION
1) A cloud–edge cooperative system and a series of data
processing algorithms are developed, and the combina-
tion of the two realizes the efficient and accurate fault
diagnosis of the rotor-bearing system.
2) A set of edge-end devices includes embedded hard-
ware and an onboard signal processing program, and
a cloud-end platform can carry out deep learning-based
fault diagnosis and alarm.
3) EMD,
feature
extraction,
and
normalization
algo-
rithms are used in the embedded device, and an
improved 1D-ResNet algorithm is used in the cloud
platforms.
4) The experiment realizes six-state category recognition
at different conditions, with an accuracy of 99.9% at
1400 r/min and 94.8% at 700 r/min. The time required
for fault diagnosis is about 1.4 s.
Although the proposed cloud–edge collaborative fault diag-
nosis method and system have achieved excellent effects, there
is still a need to strengthen research on multisource hetero-
geneous data fusion, fine diagnosis under complex working
conditions, data transmission security, and system populariza-
tion and optimization.
ACKNOWLEDGMENT
The authors thank for the technical support of the cloud
platform provided by Wu Qiangsheng and Li Yue from the
Research and Development Department, Anhui Linkedti Tech-
nology Company Ltd.
REFERENCES
[1] Y. Chi, Y. Dong, Z. J. Wang, F. R. Yu, and V. C. M. Leung, “Knowledge-
based fault diagnosis in industrial Internet of Things: A survey,” IEEE
Internet Things J., vol. 9, no. 15, pp. 12886–12900, Aug. 2022, doi:
10.1109/JIOT.2022.3163606.
[2] Y. Wang, Q. Zhang, S. Zhang, S. Li, and Y. Fan, “A rotor bearing system
fault diagnosis method based on FSASCA-VMD and GraphSAGE-SA,”
Meas. Sci. Technol., vol. 35, no. 9, Sep. 2024, Art. no. 096133, doi:
10.1088/1361-6501/ad5616.
[3] D. Łuczak, S. Brock, and K. Siembab, “Cloud based fault diagnosis by
convolutional neural network as time–frequency RGB image recognition
of industrial machine vibration with Internet of Things connectivity,”
Sensors, vol. 23, no. 7, p. 3755, Apr. 2023, doi: 10.3390/s23073755.
[4] M. Maurya, I. Panigrahi, D. Dash, and C. Malla, “Intelligent fault diag-
nostic system for rotating machinery based on IoT with cloud computing
and artificial intelligence techniques: A review,” Soft Comput., vol. 28,
no. 1, pp. 477–494, Jan. 2024, doi: 10.1007/s00500-023-08255-0.
[5] C. Yang, Y. Wang, S. Lan, L. Wang, W. Shen, and G. Q. Huang, “Cloud-
edge-device collaboration mechanisms of deep learning models for smart
robots in mass personalization,” Robot. Comput.-Integr. Manuf., vol. 77,
Oct. 2022, Art. no. 102351, doi: 10.1016/j.rcim.2022.102351.
[6] S. Lu, J. Lu, K. An, X. Wang, and Q. He, “Edge computing on IoT
for machine signal processing and fault diagnosis: A review,” IEEE
Internet Things J., vol. 10, no. 13, pp. 11093–11116, Jul. 2023, doi:
10.1109/JIOT.2023.3239944.
[7] G. Jiang, K. Zhao, X. Liu, X. Cheng, and P. Xie, “A federated
learning framework for cloud–edge collaborative fault diagnosis of wind
turbines,” IEEE Internet Things J., vol. 11, no. 13, pp. 23170–23185,
Jul. 2024, doi: 10.1109/JIOT.2024.3387417.
[8] R. Wang et al., “Cloud-edge collaborative transfer fault diagnosis
of rotating machinery via federated fine-tuning and target self-
adaptation,” Expert Syst. Appl., vol. 250, Sep. 2024, Art. no. 123859,
doi: 10.1016/j.eswa.2024.123859.
[9] B. Xiang, H. Zhang, T. Song, X. Tan, B. Wang, and Y. Xu,
“A state diagnosis method for distribution transformer device based
on
cloud
edge
collaboration,”
in
Proc.
5th
Int.
Conf.
Electr.
Eng.
Control
Technol.
(CEECT),
Dec.
2023,
pp. 416–420,
doi:
10.1109/ceect59667.2023.10420618.
[10] Y.-Y. Chen, S.-Y. Jhong, S.-K. Tu, Y.-H. Lin, and Y.-C. Wu,
“Autonomous smart-edge fault diagnostics (don’t short) via edge-cloud-
orchestrated collaborative computing for infrared electrical equipment
images,” IEEE Sensors J., vol. 24, no. 15, pp. 24630–24648, Aug. 2024,
doi: 10.1109/JSEN.2024.3415639.
[11] L. Ren, Z. Jia, T. Wang, Y. Ma, and L. Wang, “LM-CNN: A cloud-
edge collaborative method for adaptive fault diagnosis with label
sampling space enlarging,” IEEE Trans. Ind. Informat., vol. 18, no. 12,
pp. 9057–9067, Dec. 2022, doi: 10.1109/TII.2022.3180389.
[12] W.
Sima,
H.
Zhang,
and
M.
Yang,
“Edge–cloud
collaboration
detection approach for small-sample imbalanced faults in power
lines,” IEEE Trans. Instrum. Meas., vol. 71, pp. 1–11, 2022, doi:
10.1109/TIM.2022.3175262.
[13] J. Cen, Z. Yang, X. Liu, J. Xiong, and H. Chen, “A review of data-driven
machinery fault diagnosis using machine learning algorithms,” J. Vib.
Eng. Technol., vol. 10, pp. 2481–2507, Oct. 2022, doi: 10.1007/s42417-
022-00498-9.
[14] R. K. Mishra, A. Choudhary, S. Fatima, A. R. Mohanty, and
B. K. Panigrahi, “A fault diagnosis approach based on 2D-vibration
imaging for bearing faults,” J. Vib. Eng. Technol., vol. 11, no. 7,
pp. 3121–3134, Oct. 2023, doi: 10.1007/s42417-022-00735-1.
[15] T. Mian, A. Choudhary, and S. Fatima, “Multi-sensor fault diagnosis for
misalignment and unbalance detection using machine learning,” in Proc.
IEEE Int. Conf. Power Electron., Smart Grid, Renew. Energy (PESGRE),
Jan. 2022, pp. 1–6, doi: 10.1109/PESGRE52268.2022.9715938.
[16] L. Tang, H. Tian, H. Huang, S. Shi, and Q. Ji, “A survey of mechanical
fault diagnosis based on audio signal analysis,” Measurement, vol. 220,
Oct. 2023, Art. no. 113294, doi: 10.1016/j.measurement.2023.113294.
Authorized licensed use limited to: FUNDACAO UNIVERSIDADE DO RIO GRANDE. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 15:57:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.


===== PAGE 15 =====

5058
IEEE SENSORS JOURNAL, VOL. 25, NO. 3, 1 FEBRUARY 2025
[17] Z. Zhu et al., “A review of the application of deep learning in intelligent
fault diagnosis of rotating machinery,” Measurement, vol. 206, Jan. 2023,
Art. no. 112346, doi: 10.1016/j.measurement.2022.112346.
[18] Y. Sun, S. Li, and X. Wang, “Bearing fault diagnosis based on EMD and
improved Chebyshev distance in SDP image,” Measurement, vol. 176,
May 2021, Art. no. 109100, doi: 10.1016/j.measurement.2021.109100.
[19] H. Shao, M. Xia, G. Han, Y. Zhang, and J. Wan, “Intelligent fault
diagnosis of rotor-bearing system under varying working conditions with
modified transfer convolutional neural network and thermal images,”
IEEE Trans. Ind. Informat., vol. 17, no. 5, pp. 3488–3496, May 2021,
doi: 10.1109/TII.2020.3005965.
[20] W.
Wang
et
al.,
“Intelligent
fault
diagnosis
method
based
on
VMD-Hilbert spectrum and ShuffleNet-v2: Application to the gears in
a mine scraper conveyor gearbox,” Sensors, vol. 23, no. 10, p. 4951,
May 2023, doi: 10.3390/s23104951.
[21] F. Zeng, X. Zhang, S. Feng, and Y. Liu, “Belt conveyor roller bearing
fault diagnosis based on CGM-MobileNet,” in Proc. 5th Int. Conf.
Electron. Commun. Artif. Intell. (ICECAI), May 2024, pp. 236–240, doi:
10.1109/icecai62591.2024.10675148.
[22] L. Xin, S. Haidong, J. Hongkai, and X. Jiawei, “Modified Gaussian
convolutional deep belief network and infrared thermal imaging for
intelligent fault diagnosis of rotor-bearing system under time-varying
speeds,” Struct. Health Monitor., vol. 21, no. 2, pp. 339–353, Mar. 2021,
doi: 10.1177/1475921721998957.
[23] F. Hongwei, X. Ceyi, M. Jiateng, C. Xiangang, and Z. Xuhui, “A novel
intelligent diagnosis method of rolling bearing and rotor composite faults
based on vibration signal-to-image mapping and CNN-SVM,” Meas. Sci.
Technol., vol. 34, no. 4, Jan. 2023, Art. no. 044008, doi: 10.1088/1361-
6501/acad90.
[24] J. Yuan, R. Zhao, K. Wei, P. Chen, and T. He, “Fault diagnosis
of multichannel bearing-rotor system via multistructure collaborative
discriminative embedding,” IEEE/ASME Trans. Mechatronics, vol. 29,
no. 5, pp. 3497–3508, Oct. 2024, doi: 10.1109/TMECH.2023.3347631.
[25] H.
Fan,
Z.
Ren,
X.
Zhang,
X.
Cao,
H.
Ma,
and
J.
Huang,
“A gray texture image data-driven intelligent fault diagnosis method
of induction motor rotor-bearing system under variable load con-
ditions,” Measurement, vol. 233, Jun. 2024, Art. no. 114742, doi:
10.1016/j.measurement.2024.114742.
[26] H. Fan, Z. Ren, X. Cao, X. Zhang, and J. Huang, “A GTI&Ada-act
LMCNN method for intelligent fault diagnosis of motor rotor-bearing
unit under variable conditions,” IEEE Trans. Instrum. Meas., vol. 73,
pp. 1–14, 2024, doi: 10.1109/TIM.2024.3351265.
[27] N. E. Huang et al., “The empirical mode decomposition and the
Hilbert spectrum for nonlinear and non-stationary time series analysis,”
Proc. Roy. Soc. Lond. Ser. Math. Phys. Eng. Sci., vol. 454, no. 1971,
pp. 903–995, Mar. 1998, doi: 10.1098/rspa.1998.0193.
[28] N. Li, J. Dong, L. Liu, H. Li, and J. Yan, “A novel EMD and causal
convolutional network integrated with transformer for ultra short-term
wind power forecasting,” Int. J. Electr. Power Energy Syst., vol. 154,
Dec. 2023, Art. no. 109470, doi: 10.1016/j.ijepes.2023.109470.
[29] Y. Lei, Z. He, Y. Zi, and Q. Hu, “Fault diagnosis of rotating machin-
ery based on multiple ANFIS combination with gas,” Mech. Syst.
Signal Process., vol. 21, no. 5, pp. 2280–2294, Jul. 2007, doi:
10.1016/j.ymssp.2006.11.003.
[30] H. Zhao, H. Liu, Y. Jin, X. Dang, and W. Deng, “Feature extraction
for data-driven remaining useful life prediction of rolling bear-
ings,” IEEE Trans. Instrum. Meas., vol. 70, pp. 1–10, 2021, doi:
10.1109/TIM.2021.3059500.
[31] X. Cao, X. Xu, Y. Duan, and X. Yang, “Health status recogni-
tion of rotating machinery based on deep residual shrinkage network
under time-varying conditions,” IEEE Sensors J., vol. 22, no. 19,
pp. 18332–18348, Oct. 2022, doi: 10.1109/JSEN.2022.3197754.
[32] K. He, X. Zhang, S. Ren, and J. Sun, “Deep residual learning for
image recognition,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit.
(CVPR), Jun. 2016, pp. 770–778, doi: 10.1109/CVPR.2016.90.
[33] P. Liang, W. Wang, X. Yuan, S. Liu, L. Zhang, and Y. Cheng,
“Intelligent fault diagnosis of rolling bearing based on wavelet trans-
form and improved ResNet under noisy labels and environment,”
Eng. Appl. Artif. Intell., vol. 115, Oct. 2022, Art. no. 105269, doi:
10.1016/j.engappai.2022.105269.
[34] X. Wang, D. Mao, and X. Li, “Bearing fault diagnosis based on vibro-
acoustic data fusion and 1D-CNN network,” Measurement, vol. 173,
Mar. 2021, Art. no. 108518, doi: 10.1016/j.measurement.2020.108518.
[35] K. Bhosle and V. Musande, “Evaluation of deep learning CNN model
for recognition of devanagari digit,” Artif. Intell. Appl., vol. 1, no. 2,
pp. 98–102, Apr. 2023, doi: 10.47852/bonviewaia3202441.
[36] P. Preethi and H. R. Mamatha, “Region-based convolutional neural
network for segmenting text in epigraphical images,” Artif. Intell.
Appl., vol. 1, no. 2, pp. 103–111, Apr. 2023, doi: 10.47852/bon-
viewaia2202293.
[37] Y. Qin, T. Zhang, Q. Qian, and Y. Mao, “Large model for rotating
machine fault diagnosis based on a dense connection network with
depthwise separable convolution,” IEEE Trans. Instrum. Meas., vol. 73,
pp. 1–12, 2024, doi: 10.1109/TIM.2024.3396841.
Hongwei Fan (Member, IEEE) received the
Ph.D. degree from Xi’an Jiaotong University,
Xi’an, China, in 2015.
He is currently an Associate Professor and
a Project Doctoral Supervisor with the School
of Mechanical Engineering, Xi’an University of
Science and Technology, Xi’an. His research
interests include mechanical equipment monitor-
ing and fault diagnosis.
Haowen Xu received the bachelor’s degree from
Chongqing Technology and Business Univer-
sity, Chongqing, China, in 2021. He is currently
pursuing the master’s degree with the School
of Mechanical Engineering, Xi’an University of
Science and Technology, Xi’an, China.
His research interests include mechanical fault
diagnosis.
Wei Fan received the M.B.A. degree from the
University of Science and Technology, Beijing,
China, in 2022.
He is currently the General Manager with
Anhui Linkedti Technology Company Ltd., Hefei,
China. He is committed to exploring the potential
of industrial data and developing data models
to improve industrial equipment O&M efficiency,
optimize
spending,
and
reduce
equipment
operational risk.
Buran Chen received the bachelor’s degree
from Xi’an University of Science and Technology,
Xi’an, China, in 2022, where she is currently
pursuing the master’s degree with the School of
Mechanical Engineering.
Her research interests include mechanical
fault diagnosis.
Authorized licensed use limited to: FUNDACAO UNIVERSIDADE DO RIO GRANDE. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 15:57:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.


===== PAGE 16 =====

FAN et al.: CLOUD–EDGE COLLABORATIVE INTELLIGENT FAULT DIAGNOSIS OF ROTOR-BEARING SYSTEM
5059
Qingshan Li received the bachelor’s degree
from Xi’an University of Science and Technology,
Xi’an, China, in 2022, where he is currently
pursuing the master’s degree with the School of
Mechanical Engineering.
His research interests include mechanical fault
diagnosis.
Teng Zhang received the bachelor’s degree
from Changshu Institute of Technology, Suzhou,
China, in 2022. He is currently pursuing the
master’s degree with the School of Mechanical
Engineering, Xi’an University of Science and
Technology, Xi’an, China.
His research interests include mechanical fault
diagnosis.
Xiangang Cao received the Ph.D. degree from
Xi’an Jiaotong University, Xi’an, China, in 2008.
He is currently a Professor and a Doc-
toral Supervisor with the School of Mechan-
ical Engineering, Xi’an University of Science
and Technology, Xi’an. His research interests
include mechanical equipment maintenance and
management.
Xuhui Zhang (Member, IEEE) received the
Ph.D. degree from Xi’an Jiaotong University,
Xi’an, China, in 2009.
He is currently a Professor and a Doc-
toral Supervisor with the School of Mechan-
ical Engineering, Xi’an University of Science
and Technology, Xi’an. His research interests
include the detection and control of mechanical
equipment.
Authorized licensed use limited to: FUNDACAO UNIVERSIDADE DO RIO GRANDE. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 15:57:08 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
