

===== PAGE 1 =====

Transformer with multi-head attention mechanism for bearing 
fault detection
Prashant Kumar a
, Izaz Raouf b, Muhammad Muzammil Azad c
, Heung Soo Kim c,*
a Department of AI and Big Data, Woosong University, Daejeon 34606, Republic of Korea
b Department of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, OH 44106, USA
c Department of Mechanical, Robotics and Energy Engineering, Dongguk University, Seoul 04620, Republic of Korea
A R T I C L E I N F O
Keywords:
Bearing fault
Transformer
Multi-head attention
Vibration
A B S T R A C T
Timely fault detection of bearings is vital to ensure the uninterrupted functioning of rotating machinery in in­
dustry. Research on fault detection strategy for bearings has accelerated due to developments in artificial in­
telligence and computation, although managing large amounts of intricate sensor data remains complex. The 
traditional approaches rely on handcrafted features and shallow learning models, which in high-dimensional 
sensor data, may struggle to capture complex fault patterns. Using the transformer model with a multi-head 
attention mechanism, this work designs an innovative bearing fault detection method. Transformer architec­
ture, renowned for its efficacy in natural language processing applications, is tailored to handle sequential sensor 
input efficiently, without requiring identifiable features. The multi-head attention mechanism enables the model 
to capture both local and global dependencies that are essential for fault recognition, which aids in the model’s 
focus on various input sequence segments. The model was evaluated on a two real-world benchmark bearing 
dataset namely, Case Western Reserve University (CWRU) bearing dataset and Society for Machinery Failure 
Prevention Technology (MFPT) bearing dataset and compared with the deep learning baselines. This work also 
eliminated the need for extensive data processing and achieved superior fault detection accuracy. The results 
reveal the efficacy of the transformer model with multi-head attention in accurately detecting bearing faults, 
showcasing its potential for real-time condition monitoring in industrial scenarios. These findings demonstrate 
transformers’ contribution to predictive maintenance advancement, guiding the industry toward scalable, real- 
time monitoring that reduces downtime and increases sustainability. The future work could integrate the edge 
computing for on-device use and adapt to multi-fault scenarios.
1. Introduction
Bearings are prime movers of rotating machines, like motors, tur­
bines, generators, and other mechanical systems. The bearing is also 
known as a machine element that lessens friction between moving ele­
ments and restricts relative motion to only the desired motion. The 
essential parts of the bearing include rings (outer and inner race), rolling 
elements (balls, rollers, needles), cage, and fitting surfaces. The different 
bearing faults include outer race fault, inner race fault, ball defect, and 
cage defect [1]. Bearing health directly affects the overall health of the 
machinery and can directly affect performance and safety. Early detec­
tion of bearing faults is vital to ensure smooth operation of the machine, 
preventing catastrophic failure while allowing efficient scheduled 
maintenance. The traditional bearing fault detection (BFD) approaches 
are based on manual feature extraction from vibration signals, followed 
by classification using statistical methods and machine learning (ML) 
methods. However, manual feature extraction is a labor-intensive task 
that is prone to human error. It also requires a great deal of experience 
and prior knowledge. Algorithms, like support vector machines (SVMs), 
decision trees (DTs), random forest (RF), and k-nearest neighbor (kNN), 
have been extensively used for the BFD [2–5]. Using these ML tech­
niques presents several challenges, including the need for effective 
feature engineering. SVM is also sensitive to the choice of the kernel 
function and its parameters, which can significantly impact the BFD 
performance. Also, the performance of SVM suffers under noisy data or 
high-dimensional data. DT is also prone to overfitting when dealing with 
complex or noisy data. A small variation in the training data can lead to 
very different tree structures, resulting in instability. Although RFs are 
* Corresponding author.
E-mail address: heungsoo@dgu.edu (H.S. Kim). 
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Applied Soft Computing
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/asoc
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.asoc.2026.114980
Received 9 September 2024; Received in revised form 23 February 2026; Accepted 5 March 2026  
Applied Soft Computing Journal 194 (2026) 114980 
Available online 9 March 2026 
1568-4946/© 2026 Elsevier B.V. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.


===== PAGE 2 =====

more resilient than DTs, tuning them can be challenging, due to the 
numerous trees and features that need to be considered at each split. 
When dealing with large datasets, kNN is computationally expensive, as 
it requires calculation of the distance between the test sample and all 
training samples. Also, as the concept of nearest neighbors becomes less 
meaningful, it may not perform well in high-dimensional feature spaces 
[6]. These algorithms have been employed for the BFD, but they have 
their own constraints and weaknesses. Recent years have seen wide­
spread use of deep learning (DL) for the BFD. Algorithms like convolu­
tional neural networks (CNN), deep Boltzmann machines (DBM), 
stacked auto-encoders (SAE), and numerous others have been exten­
sively used in the fault diagnosis domain. Without the need for manual 
feature engineering, DL models can automatically identify and extract 
pertinent characteristics from unprocessed vibration signals. A signifi­
cant flaw in ML algorithms is naturally addressed by DL models [7]. DL 
models have also shown better FD accuracy, compared to classical ML 
models like SVMs and RFs. Also, DL models can handle large and com­
plex datasets, making them more scalable than conventional ML ap­
proaches [8]. This simplifies the overall fault detection process and leads 
to better performance.
In recent times, much emphasis has been placed on DL application in 
the BFD to where DL has become a cornerstone of BFD domain research. 
CNN has been among the most dominant algorithms in FD applications, 
and has also yielded good results. Among DL models, CNN has been 
among the most popular choices in the domain of the BFD. CNN can use 
the vibration data to perform autonomous feature engineering. It can 
also handle large and complex datasets, and aid in developing efficient 
BFD methods. Reference [9] used CNN in combination with the spec­
trogram of the vibration signals for various BFDs. In Ref. [10], BFD 
techniques were developed with the help of CNN, having a rectangular 
input shape and rectangular convolutional kernels. The physics-guided 
CNN has also been shown to perform better than the standard CNN 
models. Reference [11] proposed a BFD method that employed spec­
trogram images as an input to the CNN model with switchable 
normalization; the proposed method was assessed on the Case Western 
Reserve University (CWRU) public domain bearing dataset. Reference 
[12] employed variational mode decomposition to eliminate noise from 
the motor signals, and Mel spectrum voiceprint features were extracted; 
CNN layers were utilized to extract these features, and the Mel–CNN 
model was applied for the BFD. Reference [13] proposed a BFD utilizing 
the representation learning method based on spatiotemporal tensors and 
the CNN model. Reference [14] proposed a multiscale fully CNN model 
for the BFD under a noisy environment; after retrofitting, the vibration 
signals were used in convolution with a sizable kernel to extract tem­
poral features across a wide area, and suppress high-frequency noise. 
Reference [15] demonstrated the application of CNNs in extracting local 
features from vibration signals for the accurate BFD. CNNs are excellent 
at identifying spatial details in images. On the other hand, they have 
trouble capturing long-term dependencies in the sequence of 1D signals. 
In general, CNNs are primarily designed to capture localized features 
within a limited window of the signal. This can be a limitation for the 
BFD, where fault-related information might span over larger sequences 
in the vibration data. In recent times, vision transformers (ViTs), a DL 
architecture proposed by Vaswani et al. [16], have revolutionized nat­
ural language processing tasks. Transformers are rapidly being used in 
various instances of time-series anomaly detection, in addition to their 
widespread use in natural language processing. Anomaly transformers 
can outperform baseline anomaly detection techniques, raising F1 scores 
by up to 17% and lowering training times significantly, as shown by 
extensive trials on benchmark datasets [17]. In addition, by combining 
reversible instance normalization with the anomaly transformer archi­
tecture, the reversible instance normalized anomaly transformer pro­
posed in Ref. [18] improves the capacity to identify anomalies in time 
series data. The attention mechanism used by transformers enables the 
model to concentrate on particular segments of the input sequence that 
are most pertinent to the task at hand. A technique known as 
self-attention enables each element in an input sequence to focus on 
every other element, thereby capturing contextual linkages throughout 
the sequence. The ability of the model to capture a variety of relation­
ships in complicated signals may be limited by single-head attention, a 
particular type of self-attention that employs a single set of queries, keys, 
and values. On the other hand, multi-head attention (MHA) allows the 
model to focus on numerous representation subspaces at once by using 
various sets of queries, keys, and values in parallel. This mechanism in 
transformers provides the advantage of capturing diverse representa­
tions, enhanced feature extraction, and improved model capacity 
[19–21]. This inherent capability of transformers makes them well 
suited to analyzing time series signals, such as in the case of BFD, using 
vibration signals, where capturing long-range dependencies is crucial. 
Inner race defects, outer race defects, ball defects, cage defects, and 
combined or mixed faults (e.g., simultaneous damage in inner and outer 
raceways) are the most commonly described anomalies in the literature. 
Each of these fault types contributes to the development of deterioration 
and modifies the bearing's vibration characteristics in unique ways. It is 
crucial to carefully specify the area of research because not all of these 
abnormalities are regularly available or well-represented in benchmark 
datasets. In the proposed study, for the CWRU bearing dataset, inner 
race, outer race, and ball defects are taken into consideration in this 
study and for the Society for Machinery Failure Prevention Technology 
(MFPT) bearing dataset [25], inner race and outer race defects are taken 
into consideration. There are two reasons behind this choice. First, the 
MFPT dataset only contains inner and outer race faults in adequate 
quality and quantity, but the CWRU dataset offers well-labeled and 
validated samples for all three defect categories. The second point of 
practical significance is that the most important and common fault 
modes in industrial bearings are inner and outer race defects, which 
immediately lead to system failure and degradation. In order to expand 
the scope of the evaluation, ball defects which are less frequent in 
practice were kept for the CWRU dataset, whereas cage and combination 
faults were eliminated because of their inconsistent annotation and low 
representation.
Inspired by the above features of the transformers and MHA mech­
anism, this work proposes a data-driven BFD method using the trans­
formers with the MHA mechanism to address the shortcomings of the 
CNN-based BFD approaches. The key contributions of the work are: 
1) A transformer backed with an MHA mechanism is introduced for 
various FDs in bearings. This scheme better captures the complex and 
non-linear fault patterns in the vibration signals, compared to the 
local feature extraction of the CNNs.
2) The proposed model can apprehend distant relations in the data, 
which is beneficial for FD. The long- and short-range temporal re­
lationships of the vibration signals are also captured.
3) The efficacy of the proposed approach in actual industrial settings is 
demonstrated by evaluating its performance in noisy environments.
4) The effectiveness of the proposed strategy is demonstrated through 
in-depth analysis in CWRU and MFPT bearing dataset, and a com­
parison made with baseline methods. The findings show that the 
suggested methodology facilitates effective BFD.
There are several sections to the remaining portion of this work. 
Section 2 describes the preliminary design of the transformer with an 
MHA mechanism. Section 3 covers the specifics of the suggested meth­
odology, while Section 4 provides specifics of the experimental config­
uration, data collection process, results and a discussion of the proposed 
work, while Section 5 concludes the work.
2. Transformer with a multi-head attention mechanism
The transformer belongs to the category of DL architecture and has 
obtained substantial consideration in natural language processing and 
computer vision tasks. It relies on the self-attention mechanism (SAM) 
P. Kumar et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
Applied Soft Computing 194 (2026) 114980 
2


===== PAGE 3 =====

instead of recurrent or convolutional layers, making it highly paral­
lelizable, and enabling it to more effectively capture long-range de­
pendencies [16]. Transformers can learn long-range relationships by 
attending to entire sequences, unlike recurrent neural networks, which 
repeatedly process sequence elements, and that are restricted to 
short-term dependencies. The transformer model comprises a 
self-attention mechanism, MHA, and a position-wise feed-forward 
network (PWFFN) integrated into a transformer encoder [22]. With an 
input sequence of the form [x1,x2,x3,…,xt], where t represents the po­
sition of each instance, the input to the transformer model is often in the 
form of the tensor Rb × Rn, where b and n are the batch size and 
sequence length, respectively. The input to the transformer is first pro­
cessed via an embedding layer, which transforms it into a one-hot token 
of dimensions Rb × Rn × Rd, where d is the number of embedding di­
mensions. Next, the newly computed tensor is combined with a position 
encoding of sinusoidal form, and fed through an MHA module. A 
normalization layer is used before and after the self-attention mecha­
nism with a residual connection. Subsequently, the resulting output is 
directed to a two-layer PWFFN. Similar to the previous step, this 
network also joins the input and output using a residual connection, 
followed by another normalization layer. Fig. 1 shows the entire trans­
former model architecture, while the following sections describe each 
component.
2.1. Self-attention mechanism
Self-attention is the fundamental module of the transformer model, 
with the purpose of centering on certain regions of the input data to 
extract meaningful feature information. In classification tasks, the self- 
attention mechanism learns the discriminative feature from the data, 
making it better in terms of extracting the internal correlation of the 
data, rather than relying on external information [23]. SAM receives the 
input embedding X of dimension d from the embedding layer, and ap­
plies a linear transformation. This linear transformation converts the 
embeddings into queries (Qs), keys (Ks), and values (Vs). Then, the dot 
product of Q and K is computed, resulting in a single-head scaled 
dot-product attention. After dividing it by a scaling factor ̅̅̅̅̅
dk
√
to obtain 
the corresponding weight values, a SoftMax activation function is then 
applied to their dot product. This transformation is expressed as: 
As(Qs, Ks, Vs) = softmax
(QsKT
s̅̅̅̅̅
dk
√
)
Vs
(1) 
where, Qs = XWq
s , Ks = XWk
s , and Vs = XWv
s, with dimensions dq, dk, 
and dv.
2.2. Multi-head attention
Multi-head attention is the extended form of the SAM that permits 
the transformer model to pay attention to various sub-sequences. 
Therefore, instead of mapping with a single set of linear trans­
formations, the input tokens are transformed into h queries, keys, and 
values. This results in h different outputs through parallel self- 
attentions. These individual outputs (hi) are then concatenated and re- 
projected, forming an MHA mechanism as expressed in the following 
equations: 
Ah(X) = concat(h1, h2, h3, …, hi)W0
(2) 
hi = As(XWq
i , XWq
i , XWq
i )
(3) 
where, the ith projection on the embedding X is used to find queries, 
keys, and values that are denoted as: Wq
i ∈Rd×dq, Wk
i ∈Rd×dk, and 
Wv
i ∈Rd×dv, respectively. Moreover, W0 ∈Rh.dv×d represents the linear 
projection on the concatenated multi-head, while dk = dv = d/h in the 
transformer model.
2.3. Position-wise feedforward networks
A two-layer position-wise feed-forward network receives the output 
from the MHA module. The hidden layers in this network are activated 
using the Rectified Linear Unit (ReLU) activation function. The feed- 
forward layer independently processes each position, therefore making 
it a PWFFN. The operation of the PWFFN is expressed as: 
FFN(XA) = ReLU(0, XAW1 + b1)W1 + b2
(4) 
where, W and b denote the weights and bias of the layers of the network, 
d denotes the number of embedding dimensions, and W1 ∈Rd×dFFN, 
W2 ∈RdFFN×d, b1 ∈RdFFN, and b2 ∈Rd.
Fig. 1. The proposed transformer (MHA-T) model with its components is used for BFD.
P. Kumar et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
Applied Soft Computing 194 (2026) 114980 
3


===== PAGE 4 =====

2.4. Transformer encoder
The transformer encoder is the main module of the transformer ar­
chitecture, which integrates the attention head mechanism, multi-head 
attention, and the PWFFN. Within the transformer encoder, both the 
MHA module and PWFFN use a residual connection and the normali­
zation layer. The combination of all these blocks results in the trans­
former encoder. While the previous sections have already explained the 
remaining blocks, the two normalization layers present in the trans­
former encoder can be expressed as: 
XA = Norm(Ah(X) + X)
(5) 
XFFN = Norm(FFN(XA) + XA)
(6) 
where, XA and XFFN represent the outputs of the multi-head attention and 
PWFFN, respectively. Furthermore, it is important to note that while 
multiple transformer encoders stacked together in the same transformer 
model share the same architecture, they do not share the same hyper­
parameters.
3. The proposed methodology
In recent times, computer vision tasks have made substantial use of 
the vision transformer model. Studies show that a vision transformer 
model based on the attention mechanism can also be directly applied, 
instead of the convolutional structure. In addition, the vision trans­
former model has advantages of capturing diverse representations, 
enhanced feature extraction, and improved model capacity [19–21]. 
This paper therefore proposes the use of the transformer model with 
MHA for the BFD. Considering the one-dimensional characteristics of the 
original vibration data acquired from the electric motor, an end-to-end 
MHA-based transformer model, namely MHA−T, is proposed for the 
BFD. This model can work on the direct input of the original vibration 
data and facilitate autonomous feature extraction. Fig. 1 shows the 
layout. The original Transformer framework was developed for 
sequential data, where inputs are represented as a series of tokens. In the 
proposed study, the Transformer was adapted for 1D time-series vibra­
tion signals. Each input signal was segmented into non-overlapping 1D 
patches of length L, where L was chosen based on the signal sampling 
rate and the frequency range of interest. A fixed-dimensional embedding 
was then obtained by flattening each patch and projecting it through a 
linear layer. These embeddings, along with positional encodings, were 
provided as input token to the Transformer encoder. The multi-head 
self-attention mechanism enables the model to capture long-range de­
pendencies in the time-series data, while the patching strategy preserves 
local temporal patterns. The proposed methodology involves the 
development of an MHA-based transformer model for multiple fault 
detection in the bearings. The MHA mechanism is a core component of 
the proposed transformer architecture that helps the model focus on 
information pertinent to the task by allowing it to pay attention to 
particular segments of the input sequence. The structure of MHA−T 
model can be segregated into different parts, which are given below:
3.1. Transformer block
This block contains the “transformer_block” function, which repre­
sents a single block within a Transformer architecture. It relies on the 
SAMs to weigh the significance of numerous input elements against each 
other, making them highly suitable for sequence-based tasks. It com­
prises the following layers: 
• Multi-head attention layer: This layer calculates the attention 
score between a query (Q) and a key (K) matrix to retrieve values (V). 
The formula used is: 
MHA(Q, K, V) = softmax
(
QKT/̅̅̅̅̅
dk
√
)
V
(7) 
where, dk denotes the key dimension.
• Layer normalization: This normalizes the output of the attention 
layer, and helps improve convergence during training. The normal­
ization formula is: 
LayerNormalization (x) =
(x −μ)/(σ + ∈)
(8) 
where, μ and σ denote the mean and standard deviation of the input 
tensor, respectively, and ∈denotes a small constant for numerical 
stability.
• Feed-forward network (FFN): The output from the normalization 
passes through this network with a ReLU activation function: 
FFN(x) = ReLU(W1x + b1) • W2 + b2
(9) 
where, W1 and W2 denote the weight matrices, and b1 and b2 
represent the bias vectors.
• Residual connection: A residual link is formed by adding the 
original input tensor to the output of the feedforward network. This 
aids in preventing the training-related vanishing gradient problem.
3.2. Transformer module
This module assembles the overall model architecture, incorporating 
the transformer block to learn the hierarchical representations. It com­
prises dense layers, instances of transformer block, global average 
pooling (GAP) layers, and a dense layer with a SoftMax activation 
function. Using a dense layer, the input features are first converted into 
an embedding space. This layer learns the first representation of the 
input data. There are successive stacks of “transformer_block” functions. 
Employing self-attention, normalization, and feedforward processing, 
every block enhances the input features. A GAP layer is added after the 
Transformer blocks to minimize the spatial dimensions of the output 
features. Feature data from the entire sequence is combined in this layer. 
To generate class probabilities for multi-class classification tasks, a 
dense layer with SoftMax activation is added at the end.
4. Application on bearing dataset
For the implementation of proposed methodology, the raw vibration 
signals were segmented using an non-overlapping sliding window 
approach with a window length of 784 samples and a stride of 300 
samples. Each segment was designated with the fault category that 
matched the window's end. The proposed one-dimensional transformer 
model initially projects input segments of shape (784, 1) onto a 64- 
dimensional embedding space. Multi-head self-attention, a feed- 
forward layer of dimension 64 with ReLU activation, residual connec­
tions, and layer normalization (ε = 1e−6) are all incorporated in the 
architecture, which is made up of four stacked Transformer blocks. The 
number of attention heads was changed between {2, 4, 8} for ablation 
analysis, and a configuration without multi-head attention was also 
assessed. Global average pooling is applied before the final SoftMax 
classification layer. With a batch size of 50 and a maximum of 50 epochs, 
the model was trained using stochastic gradient descent (learning rate =
0.01) with categorical cross-entropy loss. As a regularization technique, 
early stopping with a 10 epoch patience based on validation loss was 
used. All trials were conducted five times using controlled random seeds, 
and the dataset was divided into 70% training and 30% testing sets with 
shuffling enabled. The total number of trainable parameters is explicitly 
reported in the manuscript to ensure full reproducibility.
P. Kumar et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
Applied Soft Computing 194 (2026) 114980 
4


===== PAGE 5 =====

4.1. CWRU bearing dataset
4.1.1. Experimental set-up
The experimental set-up shown in Fig. 2 comprises a 2 hp electric 
motor, dynamometer, and control electronics (not indicated). The test 
bearing supports the shaft of the motor. Using electro-discharge 
machining with varying fault dimensions, single-point faults were 
induced into the test bearings to emulate the various faults in the 
bearing. The vibration data were gathered with the help of accelerom­
eters, which were placed in the magnetic base housing. These data were 
acquired with a sampling frequency of 48 kHz. The different fault con­
ditions include faults in the inner race (FIR), outer race (FOR), and ball 
bearing (FBB). The data were acquired under different operating con­
ditions, including various loading conditions like (0, 1, 2, and 3) hp and 
various operating speeds from the drive end of the motor. The data 
conditioning and model development was on a PC with a Windows 11 
system, Intel Core i7 processor, NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3080 graphics 
card, and 32 GB memory.
For the model assessment, these vibration data were used after data 
conditioning. Data conditioning is critical to ensure that the model 
learns the relevant patterns and extracts meaningful attributes using the 
input data. The signal’s amplitude has been normalized between 0 and 1 
to stabilize the training, and ensure consistent signal magnitudes across 
different samples. After the conditioning, the continuous vibration sig­
nals were divided into fixed-length segments to create a sequence suit­
able for input into the proposed transformer model. Then, each segment 
is treated as a sequence of data points within the segments, with each 
data point being considered as a token. The tokenized segments with 
positional encodings are arranged as an input to the transformer with an 
MHA mechanism. It is worth noting that each segment is a sequence of 
tokens representing the vibration signal data. It is ensured that all input 
sequences (segments) are of the same length. After this, the transformer 
model is designed in such a way that it can accommodate input di­
mensions, sequence length, and attention mechanisms. The proposed 
model was trained using the stochastic gradient descent (SGD) optimizer 
and categorical cross entropy (CCE) loss function. SGD is generally 
considered better for achieving higher generalization performance. SGD 
tends to converge to flatter minima, which are more robust, and 
generalize better to unseen data. To achieve the best possible general­
ization performance, especially on complex tasks and large datasets, 
SGD is generally preferred [24]. The CCE loss function was employed for 
the BFD, as it is a common loss function for multi-class classification 
problems. Stable gradients are produced during backpropagation by the 
formulation of CCE loss, which facilitates smoother optimization and 
convergence during training.
4.1.2. Results
The proposed model has been rigorously evaluated to ensure its 
optimal performance. The model was trained on the CWRU bearing 
dataset using the optimum network structure and hyperparameter 
optimization. During training, a batch size of 50 was used. The trial was 
repeated 10 times to ensure efficient training and optimal model 
selection. Figs. 3 and 4, respectively, show the accuracy and loss curves 
for training and validation. These figures show that following roughly 
50 epochs, the model has begun to converge, and the accuracy and loss 
values for the training and validation datasets have stabilized. It is 
noteworthy that during the initial phase, the training loss surpasses the 
validation loss. When used in conjunction with training, dropout re­
duces the model’s capacity, and promotes robust feature learning. The 
training and validation losses of the network are essentially constant at 
the same value, which implies that the network has high generalization 
capabilities.
To evaluate the performance, the testing dataset is classified using 
the trained model. Training and tests on the data were repeated multiple 
times to ensure good performance. Table 1 shows the results. The per­
formance of the model is also compared by computing the total number 
of trainable parameters and the average training time. Real-time 
applicability was assessed by measuring inference latency and mem­
ory usage. On average, the model required less than 1.85 ms per sample 
with approximately 2452.87 MB of memory, validating its efficiency for 
Fig. 2. Experimental setup for vibration data acquisition.
Fig. 3. Accuracy curve for the proposed MHA-T model for CWRU dataset.
Fig. 4. Loss curve for the proposed MHA-T model for CWRU dataset.
Table 1 
Performance details of the MHA-T model for CWRU data.
Model
Average 
accuracy 
(%)
Number of 
parameters
Training 
time (s)
Inference 
time per 
sample
Memory 
usage
MHA- 
T
99.52
300,164
1336.96
1.85 ms
2452.87 
MB
P. Kumar et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
Applied Soft Computing 194 (2026) 114980 
5


===== PAGE 6 =====

online fault detection. An accuracy of about 99.52% has been attained 
on average. In order to assess the statistical reliability of the results, each 
experiment was repeated five times, and the mean accuracy was 99.52% 
with a 95% confidence interval of 99.10% - 99.94%. A table that shows 
the performance of a classification model visually is called a confusion 
matrix (CMX) in the context of DL-based classification; it provides an 
overview of the number of instances of each class that were false posi­
tives and false negatives, respectively, and the number that were 
correctly predicted (true positives and true negatives). Fig. 5 shows the 
CMX for the proposed MHA-T model. It is evident from the CMX that all 
the states of the bearing, namely FIR, FOR, FBB, and N, have been 
classified effectively. The different performance factors, precision (p), 
sensitivity (s), and F1 score, were measured to assess the performance of 
the MHA-T model. These values were used to estimate performance. 
These factors can be calculated as follows: 
p =
tp
tp + fp
(10) 
s =
tp
tp + fn
(11) 
F1 = 2 × p × s
p + s
(12) 
where, tp indicates actual positive trials, tn indicates actual negative 
trials, fp indicates incorrect positive trials, and fn indicates incorrect 
negative trials. Table 2 lists the values of p, s, and F1 scores. These 
parameter values are good, indicating the efficient performance of the 
proposed MHA-T model.
4.1.3. Ablation study
To further support the proposed structure, an ablation study was 
carried out with a focus on the influence of MHA, the number of 
attention heads, and the segment length of the input sequence. These 
components are crucial to the design of transformer-based models, and 
assessing their function helps to understand the rationale behind 
selecting a structure. A comparison was made between the length of the 
input segment, the number of attention heads, and the MHA's contri­
bution to the overall model performance. When MHA was removed and 
a straight skip connection was employed in its stead, accuracy contin­
uously dropped, implying that cross-segment feature interaction is 
crucial for fault classification. The findings demonstrated that perfor­
mance increased as the number of attention heads increased to four, 
whereas over-parameterization caused additional increases to have little 
or even detrimental effects. A range of two and four attention heads 
were used. The effect of segment length was examined using window 
sizes of 256, 512, and 784 samples. The 512–784 range yielded the best 
results, whereas shorter segments provided worse accuracy due to 
insufficient temporal context, while longer segments enhanced perfor­
mance by capturing richer temporal dynamics. Table 3 displays the 
entire ablation results. Overall, the ablation study supports the archi­
tectural choices made in the proposed design by demonstrating that 
using four attention heads, enabling MHA, and implementing moderate 
segment lengths results in the most efficient arrangement.
4.1.4. Performance evaluation in noisy environments
It is important to study the model’s performance in a noisy envi­
ronment. Adding white Gaussian noise is a popular method that is aimed 
at emulating noisy environmental conditions, to further examine the 
performance of the proposed BFD technique. The primary goal of 
introducing noise is to evaluate the effectiveness of the proposed 
method, and verify its resilience when processing noisy data. It also 
offers insights into the performance of the algorithms in harsh envi­
ronments, and aids in understanding their limitations. Furthermore, 
extremely noisy surroundings may result in impractical conditions that 
alter the essence of the issue at hand. As opposed to generalized noisy 
circumstances, it can force the model to learn particular degradation 
conditions. More precisely, excessive noise levels might necessitate 
model tuning that performs poorly in less noisy environments, which 
could result in overfitting to improbable events, and reduce the diag­
nostic utility of the predictive mechanism. Therefore, a trade-off exists 
between difficult, noisy conditions, and unrealistic situations. This is 
significant when dealing with different faults, and it is crucial to add 
noise without affecting the severity level of faults. To maintain the 
ability to distinguish between severity levels, an equilibrium must be 
reached between realistic and excessive noise, with enough noise added 
to replicate real-world scenarios. When assessing how well algorithms 
function in noisy, simulated environments, this is a crucial factor that 
needs to be considered. 
SNR = 10log(psignal
pnoise
)
(13) 
where, psignal denotes signal power, and pnoise denotes noise power. This 
research, therefore, adheres to signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) range values 
Fig. 5. CMX of the proposed MHA-T model for CWRU dataset.
Table 2 
Performance factors of the MHA-T model for CWRU data.
State
p
s
F1 score
FBB
0.996
0.984
0.989
FIR
0.985
0.996
0.990
FOR
1.0
0.999
0.999
N
0.998
1.0
0.998
Table 3 
Ablation study based on MHA, number of heads and segment length on CWRU 
dataset.
MHA
Heads
Segment length
Accuracy (%)
TRUE
2
256
70.10
2
512
73.20
2
784
83
4
256
78.80
4
512
90.24
4
784
99.24
FALSE
2
256
66.34
2
512
71.12
2
784
76.29
4
256
78.34
4
512
82.56
4
784
88.45
P. Kumar et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
Applied Soft Computing 194 (2026) 114980 
6


===== PAGE 7 =====

that have been extensively examined in the field of FD. SNR range levels 
ranging (−5–10) dB have been considered for the analysis. All the ex­
periments are conducted independently 10 times, with the structure and 
parameters of the proposed model remaining unchanged. Also, to extend 
robustness of the proposed approach, Laplace noise was also injected, 
which better represents heavy-tailored industrial disturbances. This 
provides a more realistic robustness evaluation. Fig. 6 shows the accu­
racy of the proposed model under different SNR levels for both noises. 
The findings show that the classification accuracy of the proposed model 
generally improves with increasing SNR levels. Higher SNR indicates 
less noise in the input signal, which makes classification simpler. 
Depending on the SNR level, the model performs differently. In essence, 
it is evident that while the model performance can be affected by noisy 
conditions, the proposed approach has also worked efficiently under 
noisy conditions.
4.2. MFPT dataset
4.2.1. Experimental setup
The Society for Machinery Failure Prevention Technology (MFPT) is 
the source of the MFPT bearing dataset [25]. A NICE bearing is used in 
the MFPT's bearing data. Three classes of bearing data are included in 
this dataset: normal bearing data, inner race fault, and outer race fault at 
different loads. The test setup was equipped with a NICE, 7 outer race 
fault conditions: 25, 50, 100, 150, 200, 250 and 300 lbs of load and 7 
inner race fault conditions: 0, 50, 100, 150, 200, 250 and 300 lbs of load. 
For the proposed model assessment, these vibration data were used after 
data conditioning. A data conditioning and processing strategy similar 
to CWRU bearing dataset were followed for this dataset. The proposed 
model was trained using the SGD optimizer and CCE loss function.
4.2.2. Results
In order to ensure optimal performance, the proposed model has 
undergone a thorough evaluation. Using hyperparameter optimization 
and the optimal network topology, the model was trained on the MFPT 
bearing dataset. A batch size of 50 was used for training. To guarantee 
effective training and ideal model selection, the trial was conducted 
multiple times. The accuracy and loss curves for training and validation 
are displayed in Figs. 7 and 8, respectively. According to these figures, 
the model has started to converge after about 80 epochs, and the ac­
curacy and loss values for the training and validation datasets have 
leveled out. Dropout encourages strong feature learning while lowering 
the model's capacity when used in conjunction with training. The net­
work's great generalization capabilities are implied by the fact that its 
training and validation losses are nearly constant at the same value.
The trained model is used to classify the testing dataset in order to 
assess performance. To guarantee optimal performance, training and 
testing on the data were conducted several times. The results are dis­
played in Table 4. Real-time applicability was assessed by measuring 
inference latency and memory usage. On average, the model required 
less than 1.76 ms per sample with approximately 2102.87 MB of 
memory, validating its efficiency for online fault detection. By calcu­
lating the average training time and the total number of trainable pa­
rameters, the model's performance is also compared. On average, an 
accuracy of 97.11% has been achieved. In order to assess the statistical 
reliability of the results, each experiment was repeated five times, and 
the mean accuracy was 97.11% with a 95% confidence interval of 
96.54% - 97.68%. The CMX for the proposed model is displayed in 
Fig. 9. The CMX makes it clear that every bearing state, FIR, FOR, and N 
has been successfully categorized. Table 5 lists the values of p, s, and F1 
scores. The different performance factors were measured to assess the 
performance of the proposed model. Performance was estimated using 
these parameters.
4.2.3. Ablation study
Ablation study was conducted to concentrate on the impact of MHA, 
Fig. 6. Performance of the proposed method under different SNRs for 
CWRU data.
Fig. 7. Accuracy curve for the proposed model on MFPT dataset.
Fig. 8. Loss curve for the proposed model on MFPT data.
Table 4 
Performance details of the proposed model on MFPT data.
Model
Average 
accuracy 
(%)
Number of 
parameters
Training 
time (s)
Inference 
time per 
sample
Memory 
usage
MHA- 
T
97.11
300099
2352
1.76 ms
2102.87 
MB
P. Kumar et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
Applied Soft Computing 194 (2026) 114980 
7


===== PAGE 8 =====

the number of attention heads, and the segment length of the input 
sequence in order to further support the proposed structure. These ele­
ments are essential to transformer-based model design, and evaluating 
their role clarifies the reasoning behind the configuration that was 
selected. The contribution of the MHA, the number of attention heads, 
and the length of the input segment to the overall model performance 
were compared. Accuracy consistently decreased when MHA was 
eliminated and a straight skip connection was used in its place, indi­
cating that cross-segment feature interaction is essential for fault clas­
sification. The results demonstrated that performance improved as the 
number of attention heads climbed up to four, whereas subsequent in­
creases had insignificant or even negative impacts due to over- 
parameterization. The number of attention heads was varied between 
two and four. Window sizes of 256, 512, and 784 samples were used in 
order to investigate the impact of segment length. Longer segments 
improved performance by capturing richer temporal dynamics, whereas 
shorter segments produced lower accuracy due to insufficient temporal 
context; the 512–784 range produced the greatest results. The 
comprehensive ablation findings are shown in Table 6. Overall, the 
ablation study validates the architectural decisions in the proposed 
structure by showing that the most efficient configuration is achieved by 
enabling MHA, employing four attention heads, and implementing 
moderate segment lengths.
4.2.4. Performance evaluation in noisy environments
Analyzing the model's performance in a noisy setting is important. 
An approach that is widely used to simulate noisy environments is the 
addition of white Gaussian noise, which is used to further analyze the 
effectiveness of the suggested BFD technique. Adding noise serves the 
main purpose of assessing the proposed method's efficacy and con­
firming its robustness in handling noisy data. It also helps comprehend 
the algorithms' limitations and provides information about how well 
they perform in challenging settings. The SNR range values used in this 
study have been thoroughly studied in the field of FD. For the analysis, 
SNR range ranges between −5 and 10 dB have been considered. Multi­
ple independent runs of each experiment are carried out, keeping the 
parameters and structure of the proposed model constant. Also, to 
extend robustness of the proposed approach, Laplace noise was also 
injected, which better represents heavy-tailored industrial disturbances. 
This provides a more realistic robustness evaluation. Fig. 10 shows the 
accuracy of the proposed model under different SNR levels for both 
noises. The results demonstrate that the proposed model's classification 
accuracy often increases as SNR levels rise. Classification is made easier 
by higher SNR, which denotes less noise in the input signal. The model's 
performance varies with the SNR level. Overall, it is clear that although 
noisy situations can impact the model's performance, the proposed 
approach has also proven effective in noisy environments.
4.3. Cross-domain generalization study
To evaluate the generalization capabilities of the proposed approach, 
a cross-domain generalization study is done using the CWRU and MFPT 
datasets. Cross-domain evaluation evaluates the robustness of the 
learned representations under distribution shift triggered by variations 
in operating conditions, sensor configurations, fault severities, and data 
acquisition systems, in contrast to within-domain experiments where 
training and testing samples come from the same dataset. Two experi­
mental scenarios were considered: training on CWRU and testing on 
MFPT (CWRU → MFPT) and training on MFPT and testing on CWRU 
(MFPT → CWRU). Without any domain adaptation or fine-tuning, the 
model was assessed on the target dataset after being trained solely on the 
source dataset in both cases. Both datasets were subjected to the same 
preprocessing and segmentation parameters (window length = 784, 
stride = 300) and a single label encoding approach to ensure fairness. 
Table 7 summarizes the within-domain and cross-domain results. It is 
evident from Table 7
that the within-domain performance is 
Fig. 9. CMX of the proposed model on MFPT data.
Table 5 
Performance factors of the proposed model on MFPT data.
State
p
s
F1 score
FIR
0.9598
0.9812
0.9704
FOR
0.9785
0.9338
0.9556
N
0.9755
0.9983
0.9868
Table 6 
Ablation study based on MHA, number of heads and segment length on MFPT 
dataset.
MHA
Heads
Segment length
Accuracy (%)
TRUE
2
256
68.24
2
512
74.45
2
784
82.38
4
256
76.65
4
512
91.43
4
784
97.11
FALSE
2
256
65.45
2
512
70.34
2
784
75.58
4
256
77.56
4
512
81.24
4
784
89.46
Fig. 10. Performance of the proposed method under different SNRs on 
MFPT data.
P. Kumar et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
Applied Soft Computing 194 (2026) 114980 
8


===== PAGE 9 =====

substantially better than the cross-domain performance. There is a 
domain shift between the two datasets, as evidenced by the degradation 
seen during cross-dataset evaluation. Many factors, such as variations in 
sampling frequency, load conditions, fault sizes, sensor positioning, and 
background noise characteristics, might be attributed to this perfor­
mance disparity. Variations in signal distribution limit the direct 
transferability of the proposed model across domains since it learns 
dataset-specific spectral and temporal patterns. However, the proposed 
model has reasonable performance in the cross-domain study, which 
demonstrates its efficacy.
4.4. Comparison with state-of-the-art methods
The above performance evaluation of the developed method dem­
onstrates the model performance under noisy environments. The pri­
mary focus of these comparisons was the performance play of the 
network over various operational conditions. However, a comparison 
with the other BFD methods is crucial to verifying the efficacy of the 
developed approach. This section compares the other baseline methods 
that have employed comparable datasets for the BFD. These comparison 
methods include the deep wavelet AE (DWAE) [26], AE-based deep 
neural network (AE−DNN) [27], multi-scale deep CNN (MSD−CNN) 
[28], hierarchical deep belief network (HDBN) [29], generative adver­
sarial network (GAN) model [30], deep recurrent neural network model 
(DRNN) [31], weighted principal component analysis with the Gaussian 
mixture model (WPCA−GMM) [32], and a combination of wavelet 
packet decomposition and the DBN model (WPD−DBN) [33]. A 
comprehensive 
performance 
background 
for 
the 
proposed 
transformer-based framework is provided by the comparison results 
shown in Table 8, which are taken from the corresponding original 
publications. It should be mentioned that these investigations were 
carried out in a variety of experimental conditions, such as differing 
hardware configurations, training methods, segmentation techniques, 
and data preparation. As a result, rather than being rigorously controlled 
benchmarking research, the comparison is meant to serve as a general 
performance reference. The ablation analysis of the proposed model 
under a unified protocol is separately reported in previous sections to 
ensure fair internal evaluation. The table clearly shows that the pro­
posed method achieved performance comparable to state-of-the-art 
approaches in fault classification accuracy across different bearing 
fault types.
4.5. Discussion and future challenges
The proposed method has used transformers with multi-head atten­
tion mechanism for the BFD. The model was evaluated on the two 
bearing dataset to understand the performance on different bearing 
datasets. The proposed model performed efficiently on both the datasets, 
where it achieved consistent and competitive results. This shows the 
model’s capability to generalize across datasets collected under diverse 
conditions. But even with these positive outcomes, there are still limi­
tations. For instance, data from machinery with different structural 
configurations, sensor locations, or operational loads may be used in 
real-world applications, which could nevertheless have an impact on the 
model's transferability. Furthermore, even though the model performed 
well in noisy settings, further extensive validation on a variety of in­
dustrial datasets is required.
These constraints could be addressed in future research using a va­
riety of approaches. It may be possible to effectively adapt the model to 
unknown datasets by using domain adaptation and transfer learning 
techniques. Expanding the range of possibilities in training circum­
stances may be facilitated by physics-informed simulation and data 
augmentation. Additionally, by utilizing several complementary 
models, ensemble learning techniques may increase robustness. Lastly, 
thorough cross-domain benchmarking across various pieces of equip­
ment and operating conditions would offer more profound under­
standing of the proposed approach's scalability and industrial suitability.
5. Conclusion
In this study, we investigated the application of a transformer with a 
multi-head attention mechanism for bearing fault detection on the 
CWRU and MFPT bearing dataset. The experimental analysis displayed 
the efficacy of the developed method in identifying suitable fault pat­
terns and achieving high classification performance. One of the major 
advantages of the proposed method lies in its ability to automatically 
learn important representations from the raw vibration signal data, 
without depending on handcrafted features or domain-specific knowl­
edge. Originally intended for sequence modeling challenges in natural 
language processing, the transformer architecture has shown itself to be 
a good fit for capturing the complex connections and temporal de­
pendencies observed in vibration signals. Using an MHA mechanism, the 
model has categorized faults in an efficient manner by paying attention 
to relevant fragments of the input sequence. Also, the performance of the 
proposed model was evaluated under noisy environmental conditions 
and performed reasonably well in these conditions. The comparison 
showed that the proposed method achieved performance comparable to 
state-of-the-art approaches in fault classification accuracy across 
different bearing fault types. To sum up, the amalgamation of the 
transformer and multi-head attention mechanism represents a note­
worthy progression in the domain of bearing fault detection, offering an 
efficient data-driven methodology for rotating machinery health moni­
toring and predictive maintenance in industrial environments.
CRediT authorship contribution statement
Muhammad Muzammil Azad: Writing – review & editing, Inves­
tigation, Formal analysis, Conceptualization. Heung Soo Kim: Writing – 
review & editing, Validation, Resources, Project administration, Inves­
tigation, Funding acquisition, Formal analysis, Conceptualization. Pra­
shant Kumar: Writing – review & editing, Writing – original draft, 
Validation, Software, Methodology, Investigation, Conceptualization. 
Izaz Raouf: Writing – review & editing, Investigation, Formal analysis, 
Conceptualization.
Declaration of Competing Interest
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial 
Table 7 
Cross-domain generalization study on CWRU and MFPT datasets.
Train dataset
Test dataset
Accuracy (%)
CWRU
CWRU
99.52
MFPT
MFPT
97.11
CWRU
MFPT (CWRU → MFPT)
76.16
MFPT
CWRU (MFPT → CWRU)
72.45
Table 8 
Comparison of the proposed method with the state-of-the- 
art methods based on the CWRU dataset.
Method [Ref.]
Accuracy (%)
DWAE [26]
95.20
AE-DNN [27]
97.47
MSD-CNN [28]
99.27
HDBN [29]
99.03
GAN [30]
96
DRNN [31]
98.67
WPCA-GMM [32]
82.50
WPD-DBN [33]
98.24
MHA-T (CWRU)
99.52
P. Kumar et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
Applied Soft Computing 194 (2026) 114980 
9


===== PAGE 10 =====

interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence 
the work reported in this paper.
Acknowledgments
This work was supported by the National Research Foundation of 
Korea (NRF) grant funded by the Korea government (MSIT) (RS-2025- 
00523019).
Data availability
Data will be made available on request.
References
[1] F. Immovilli, A. Bellini, R. Rubini, C. Tassoni, Diagnosis of bearing faults in 
induction machines by vibration or current signals: a critical comparison, IEEE 
Trans. Ind. Appl. 46 (2010) 1350–1359, https://doi.org/10.1109/ 
TIA.2010.2049623.
[2] D. Goyal, A. Choudhary, B.S. Pabla, S.S. Dhami, Support vector machines based 
non-contact fault diagnosis system for bearings, J. Intell. Manuf. 31 (2020) 
1275–1289, https://doi.org/10.1007/s10845-019-01511-x.
[3] F.B. Abid, M. Sallem, A. Braham, Optimized SWPT and Decision Tree for Incipient 
Bearing Fault Diagnosis, in: 2019 19th International Conference on Sciences and 
Techniques of Automatic Control and Computer Engineering (STA), 2019: pp. 
231–236. https://doi.org/10.1109/STA.2019.8717197.
[4] Z. Wang, Q. Zhang, J. Xiong, M. Xiao, G. Sun, J. He, Fault diagnosis of a rolling 
bearing using wavelet packet denoising and random forests, IEEE Sens. J. 17 
(2017) 5581–5588, https://doi.org/10.1109/JSEN.2017.2726011.
[5] W. Li, Y. Cao, L. Li, S. Hou, An orthogonal wavelet transform-based k-nearest 
neighbor algorithm to detect faults in bearings, Shock Vib. 2022 (2022) e5242106, 
https://doi.org/10.1155/2022/5242106.
[6] V. Sheth, U. Tripathi, A. Sharma, A comparative analysis of machine learning 
algorithms for classification purpose, Procedia Comput. Sci. 215 (2022) 422–431, 
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.procs.2022.12.044.
[7] P.N. Mueller, L. Woelfl, S. Can, Bridging the gap between AI and the industry - a 
study on bearing fault detection in PMSM-driven systems using CNN and inverter 
measurement, Eng. Appl. Artif. Intell. 126 (2023) 106834, https://doi.org/ 
10.1016/j.engappai.2023.106834.
[8] S. Shen, H. Lu, M. Sadoughi, C. Hu, V. Nemani, A. Thelen, K. Webster, M. Darr, 
J. Sidon, S. Kenny, A physics-informed deep learning approach for bearing fault 
detection, Eng. Appl. Artif. Intell. 103 (2021) 104295, https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
engappai.2021.104295.
[9] V. Pandhare, J. Singh, J. Lee, Convolutional Neural Network Based Rolling- 
Element Bearing Fault Diagnosis for Naturally Occurring and Progressing Defects 
Using Time-Frequency Domain Features, in: 2019 Prognostics and System Health 
Management Conference (PHM-Paris), 2019: pp. 320–326. https://doi.org 
/10.1109/PHM-Paris.2019.00061.
[10] D. Ruan, J. Wang, J. Yan, C. Gühmann, CNN parameter design based on fault signal 
analysis and its application in bearing fault diagnosis, Adv. Eng. Inform. 55 (2023) 
101877, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.aei.2023.101877.
[11] D. Neupane, Y. Kim, J. Seok, Bearing fault detection using scalogram and 
switchable normalization-based CNN (SN-CNN), IEEE Access 9 (2021) 
88151–88166, https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2021.3089698.
[12] S. Shan, J. Liu, S. Wu, Y. Shao, H. Li, A motor bearing fault voiceprint recognition 
method based on Mel-CNN model, Measurement 207 (2023) 112408, https://doi. 
org/10.1016/j.measurement.2022.112408.
[13] Z. Wang, H. Lu, Y. Shi, X. Wang, Lightweight CNN architecture design based on 
spatial–temporal tensor and its application in bearing fault diagnosis, IEEE Trans. 
Instrum. Meas. 73 (2024) 1–12, https://doi.org/10.1109/TIM.2023.3336435.
[14] F. Li, L. Wang, D. Wang, J. Wu, H. Zhao, An adaptive multiscale fully convolutional 
network for bearing fault diagnosis under noisy environments, Measurement 216 
(2023) 112993, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.measurement.2023.112993.
[15] H.-Y. Chen, C.-H. Lee, Deep learning approach for vibration signals applications, 
Sensors 21 (2021) 3929, https://doi.org/10.3390/s21113929.
[16] A. Vaswani, N. Shazeer, N. Parmar, J. Uszkoreit, L. Jones, A.N. Gomez, L. Kaiser, 
I. Polosukhin, Atten. Is. All You Need (2023), https://doi.org/10.48550/ 
arXiv.1706.03762.
[17] S. Tuli, G. Casale, N.R. Jennings, TranAD Deep Transform. Netw. Anom. Detect. 
Multivar. Time Ser. Data (2022), https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2201.07284.
[18] R. Baidya, H. Jeong, Anomaly detection in time series data using reversible 
instance normalized anomaly transformer, Sensors 23 (2023) 9272, https://doi. 
org/10.3390/s23229272.
[19] S. Reza, M.C. Ferreira, J.J.M. Machado, J.M.R.S. Tavares, A multi-head attention- 
based transformer model for traffic flow forecasting with a comparative analysis to 
recurrent neural networks, Expert Syst. Appl. 202 (2022) 117275, https://doi.org/ 
10.1016/j.eswa.2022.117275.
[20] P. Zeng, G. Hu, X. Zhou, S. Li, P. Liu, S. Liu, Muformer: a long sequence time-series 
forecasting model based on modified multi-head attention, Knowl. Based Syst. 254 
(2022) 109584, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2022.109584.
[21] Z. Chen, M. Lin, Z. Wang, Q. Zheng, C. Liu, Spatio-temporal representation learning 
enhanced speech emotion recognition with multi-head attention mechanisms, 
Knowl. Based Syst. 281 (2023) 111077, https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
knosys.2023.111077.
[22] W. Li, F. Qi, M. Tang, Z. Yu, Bidirectional LSTM with self-attention mechanism and 
multi-channel features for sentiment classification, Neurocomputing 387 (2020) 
63–77, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neucom.2020.01.006.
[23] S. Tabatabaei, K. Rezaee, M. Zhu, Attention transformer mechanism and fusion- 
based deep learning architecture for MRI brain tumor classification system, 
Biomed. Signal Process. Control 86 (2023) 105119, https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
bspc.2023.105119.
[24] P. Zhou, J. Feng, C. Ma, C. Xiong, S.C.H. Hoi, Towards theoretically understanding 
why sgd generalizes better than adam in deep learning, Adv. Neural Inf. Process. 
Syst. 33 (2020) 21285–21296.
[25] E. Bechhoefer, Condition based maintenance fault database for testing diagnostics 
and prognostic algorithms, MFPT Data (2013).
[26] S. Haidong, J. Hongkai, L. Xingqiu, W. Shuaipeng, Intelligent fault diagnosis of 
rolling bearing using deep wavelet auto-encoder with extreme learning machine, 
Knowl. Based Syst. 140 (2018) 1–14, https://doi.org/10.1016/j. 
knosys.2017.10.024.
[27] J. Sun, C. Yan, J. Wen, Intelligent bearing fault diagnosis method combining 
compressed data acquisition and deep learning, IEEE Trans. Instrum. Meas. 67 
(2018) 185–195, https://doi.org/10.1109/TIM.2017.2759418.
[28] Z. Zilong, Q. Wei, Intelligent fault diagnosis of rolling bearing using one- 
dimensional multi-scale deep convolutional neural network based health state 
classification, IEEE 15th Int. Conf. Netw. Sens. Control (ICNSC) 2018 (2018) 1–6, 
https://doi.org/10.1109/ICNSC.2018.8361296.
[29] M. Gan, C. Wang, Construction of hierarchical diagnosis network based on deep 
learning and its application in the fault pattern recognition of rolling element 
bearings, Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 72 (2016) 92–104.
[30] W. Mao, Y. Liu, L. Ding, Y. Li, Imbalanced fault diagnosis of rolling bearing based 
on generative adversarial network: a comparative study, IEEE Access 7 (2019) 
9515–9530, https://doi.org/10.1109/ACCESS.2018.2890693.
[31] H. Jiang, X. Li, H. Shao, K. Zhao, Intelligent fault diagnosis of rolling bearings using 
an improved deep recurrent neural network, Meas. Sci. Technol. 29 (2018) 
065107.
[32] A.E. Chaleshtori, A. Aghaie, A novel bearing fault diagnosis approach using the 
Gaussian mixture model and the weighted principal component analysis, Reliab. 
Eng. Syst. Saf. 242 (2024) 109720, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ress.2023.109720.
[33] F. Zhao, Y. Jiang, C. Cheng, S. Wang, An improved fault diagnosis method for 
rolling bearings based on wavelet packet decomposition and network parameter 
optimization, Meas. Sci. Technol. 35 (2023) 025004, https://doi.org/10.1088/ 
1361-6501/ad0691.
P. Kumar et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                  
Applied Soft Computing 194 (2026) 114980 
10
