

===== PAGE 1 =====

Frequency-band graph-based sensor fusion with sensitivity-aware energy 
assist network for machinery system fault diagnosis
Sang Kyung Lee a, Hyeongmin Kim a, Minseok Chae a, Hansoo Kim a, Joonho Yang a,  
Heonjun Yoon b,*, Byeng D. Youn a,c,d,**
a Department of Mechanical Engineering, Seoul National University, Seoul, 08826, Republic of Korea
b School of Mechanical Engineering, Soongsil University, Seoul, 06978, Republic of Korea
c Institute of Advanced Machines and Design, Seoul National University, Seoul, 08826, Republic of Korea
d Onepredict Inc., Seoul, 06105, Republic of Korea
A R T I C L E I N F O
Keywords:
System fault diagnosis
Graph representation
Graph neural networks
Sensor fusion
A B S T R A C T
Graph-based fault diagnosis methods have shown capabilities in multi-sensor data fusion by representing the 
hidden relationships between sensors. However, their effective application in complex machinery systems re­
mains challenging. First, constructing a graph that fully captures system-level fault characteristics is difficult, as 
fault-related features in signals are often subtle and widely distributed across multiple frequency bands. Second, 
learning accurate and efficient graph representations during model training is hindered by the fact that sensor 
signals exhibit varying sensitivities to different fault modes, and each fault mode presents distinct frequency- 
domain behaviors, such as energy shifts or unique fault frequencies. To overcome these challenges, this article 
proposes frequency-band graph-based sensor fusion with sensitivity-aware energy assist network (FBG-SEANet), 
a newly developed graph-based sensor fusion framework. The frequency-band graph (FBG) is a novel graph 
construction strategy that decomposes sensor signals into multiple frequency bands, builds a subgraph for each 
band, and connects them to form the final graph, thereby preserving subtle fault features distinctive to each 
band. Using the FBG as input, the sensitivity-aware energy assist network (SEANet) is designed with a sensitivity- 
aware readout (SR) layer to capture signal sensitivity to each fault. In addition, an energy assist (EA) module is 
employed to learn fault features associated with energy shifts in the signals. Validation is carried out using one 
open rotating machinery dataset, one motor experimental dataset, and one urban air mobility (UAM) system 
experimental dataset. The results show that FBG-SEANet improves multi-sensor data fusion and outperforms 
conventional sensor fusion models with enhanced explainability.
1. Introduction
Machinery systems are complex assemblies comprising multiple 
components that operate in unison, playing a crucial role in modern 
industries (Yang et al., 2023a; Li et al., 2022b; Miao et al., 2024). With 
ongoing technological advancements, such systems are increasingly 
being adopted in emerging fields such as urban air mobility (UAM) and 
electric cars (Straubinger et al., 2020; Sun et al., 2019; Dai et al., 2024). 
Failures of these machinery systems can result not only in significant 
economic losses but also in serious safety risks to users (Li et al., 2024; 
Tian et al., 2018; Wang et al., 2025a). Thus, developing reliable fault 
diagnosis methods is of great importance to ensure the stable operation 
of machinery systems (He et al., 2020; Feng et al., 2023b; Straubinger 
et al., 2020; Zhiyi et al., 2020).
Advances in signal acquisition technologies for fault diagnosis have 
enabled the collection of large volumes of monitoring data through 
various sensor modalities (Zhao et al., 2023). To effectively leverage 
such data, deep learning (DL)-based methods have emerged as a repre­
sentative data-driven approach owing to their ability to autonomously 
extract and select relevant features. Representative examples include 
long short-term memory (LSTM) networks for motor fault diagnosis 
(Xiao et al., 2019), convolutional neural network (CNN)-based encoders 
for rolling bearing fault (Qin and Shi, 2022), variational autoencoders 
(VAEs) for signal dimensionality reduction in motor fault diagnosis 
* Corresponding author. School of Mechanical Engineering, Soongsil University, Seoul, 06978, Republic of Korea.
** Corresponding author. Department of Mechanical Engineering, Seoul National University, Seoul, 08826, Republic of Korea.
E-mail addresses: heonjun@ssu.ac.kr (H. Yoon), bdyoun@snu.ac.kr (B.D. Youn). 
Contents lists available at ScienceDirect
Engineering Applications of Artificial Intelligence
journal homepage: www.elsevier.com/locate/engappai
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.engappai.2026.115273
Received 18 December 2025; Received in revised form 14 May 2026; Accepted 27 May 2026  
Engineering Applications of Artiϧcial Intelligence 179 (2026) 115273 
Available online 2 June 2026 
0952-1976/© 2026 Elsevier Ltd. All rights are reserved, including those for text and data mining, AI training, and similar technologies.


===== PAGE 2 =====

(Huang et al., 2019), and transformer models for capturing global de­
pendencies in rolling bearing fault diagnosis (Wang et al., 2024b).
Despite these advancements, applying DL-based methods to complex 
machinery systems remains challenging due to the intricate nature of 
such systems. These systems are composed of mechanical and electrical 
components that closely interact with each other (Choudhary et al., 
2022), leading to strong interdependencies among signals from 
different subsystems. As a result, there is a growing need for system-level 
fault diagnosis that can account for these cross-component interactions. 
Conventional DL-based methods, however, typically process sensor data 
by simply concatenating signals and applying fixed convolutional ker­
nels (Kim et al., 2023b). This limits their ability to model the non-linear 
and cross-sensor interactions that are intrinsic to complex machinery 
systems, thereby preventing them from fully leveraging the rich struc­
tural relationships embedded in the sensor data.
To address these challenges, many researchers have recently 
employed graph neural network (GNN)-based methods (Zhong et al., 
2025a; Xiao et al., 2024) including a graph convolutional network 
(GCN) (Zhang et al., 2022a, 2024a; Gao et al., 2021) and a graph 
attention network (GAT) (Veliˇckovi´c et al., 2017; Chen et al., 2025) 
offering advantages in multi-sensor fusion for system-level fault diag­
nosis (Wang et al., 2024a; Feng et al., 2023a; Li et al., 2022a; Xu et al., 
2024). The graph-based method can reveal hidden relationships be­
tween sensors by representing their interactions and features as edges 
and nodes (Zhao et al., 2024; Wei et al., 2024, 2025). This makes 
graph-based methods particularly effective for multi-sensor fusion, as 
each node aggregates information from neighboring sensors through 
message passing, enabling the model to jointly leverage the entire sensor 
network. Additionally, in the graph domain, the geometric structure of 
the graph can also represent the relationships between sensors, enabling 
better modeling of inter-sensor dependencies (Sun et al., 2021; Zheng 
et al., 2024).
Graph-based, system-level fault diagnosis frameworks can be 
broadly categorized into node-level and graph-level. The node-level 
approach represents an individual sample as each node in a graph (Li 
et al., 2022a; Zhang et al., 2024b). However, because such approaches 
mainly focus on local neighborhood information and their computa­
tional cost increases with the number of nodes, they are less suitable for 
large-scale graph data from multi-sensor machinery systems (Wang 
et al., 2024a). In contrast, graph-level approaches represent an entire 
system state as a single graph and learn a unified graph representation 
that captures structural relationships among acquisition signals (Wang 
et al., 2023; Zhong et al., 2025b). By integrating both local and global 
graph information, graph-level approaches are more effective for 
modeling complex inter-sensor correlations and are therefore more 
widely adopted in system-level fault diagnosis.
Leveraging these advantages, various graph-level methods have been 
proposed with different strategies for graph construction and represen­
tation. For graph construction, prior studies have built graphs from raw 
signals using similarity-based relations, from temporally processed 
features extracted by feature encoders, and from alternative signal 
representations such as Markov field graphs or frequency-domain fea­
tures (Wang et al., 2023; Yang et al., 2023b; Han et al., 2024; Zhang 
et al., 2022b, 2023). For graph representation, attention mechanisms 
have been incorporated during graph convolution to capture the relative 
importance of different sensors, followed by a readout layer to obtain 
the final graph-level representation (Zhang et al., 2023; Wang et al., 
2023; Yang et al., 2023b).
Despite the progress of these studies, several issues still remain in the 
context of system-level fault diagnosis, particularly in both graph con­
struction and graph representation. First, in terms of graph construction, 
directly using raw sensor signals for node embedding presents some 
challenges. Dominant operational components in raw signal can mask 
subtle fault features, and since raw time-series signals contain over­
lapped frequency information, it is difficult to capture fault character­
istics distributed across multiple frequency bands. Furthermore, 
methods utilizing energy spectrum from the raw signal typically 
aggregate the entire spectrum at once into a single vector, which can still 
dilute fault features present in narrow frequency bands.
Second, in terms of graph representation, representing distinct fault 
features presents some challenges. Applying attention mechanisms only 
in the convolution stage, rather than the readout stage, may not fully 
incorporate inter-sensor importance, as the readout layer is the final 
stage for graph representation. This may lead the model to suffer from 
information redundancy, thereby failing to effectively represent fault 
features. Moreover, in practical systems, each fault mode exhibits 
distinct fault behaviors, such as energy variations in pre-existing fre­
quencies or the appearance of unique fault frequencies. However, 
existing methods did not fully consider these unique fault behaviors, 
limiting their robustness in diagnosing various fault modes.
To address these issues, this article proposes a frequency band graph- 
based sensor fusion with sensitivity-aware energy assist network (FBG- 
SEANet), a novel graph-based, system-level fault diagnosis framework 
that integrates a new graph construction strategy with an enhanced 
graph representation network. The proposed method begins with two- 
stage frequency-band graph (FBG) construction based on signal pro­
cessing. In the first stage, a notch filter is applied in operation compo­
nent filtering (OCF) to remove operational components from the signals. 
In the second stage, band-pass filters are utilized to generate subgraphs 
for each frequency band, thereby ensuring that the graph reflects more 
detailed and band-specific fault characteristics in the frequency domain. 
To effectively represent the constructed graph, FBG-SEANet further in­
corporates two specialized modules. First, a sensitivity-aware readout 
layer (SR layer) is introduced to fully incorporate inter-sensor impor­
tance, reducing information redundancy and enhancing interpretability. 
Second, an energy assist (EA) module embeds energy-related features 
into each node, allowing the model to adequately reflect energy varia­
tions in pre-existing frequency components caused by faults, thereby 
achieving reliable system-level fault diagnosis across various fault 
modes.
The main contributions are summarized as follows: 
• Propose FBG-SEANet, a unified framework that jointly addresses 
graph construction and graph representation for system-level fault 
diagnosis.
• Develop the FBG, a novel graph construction strategy that eliminate 
operational components and captures band-specific fault features.
• Design the SR layer and EA module to enhance representation 
learning by modeling sensor importance and incorporating energy 
shift information.
The remainder of the paper is organized as follows. Section 2 pro­
vides the theoretical background of graph-based fault diagnosis. Section 
3 illustrates the proposed method, FBG-SEANet, in detail. Section 4
presents experimental validation and discussions based on three data­
sets. Finally, Section 5 summarizes the conclusions of the paper.
2. Theoretical background
2.1. Graph convolutional networks
GCNs have emerged as an effective tool for learning representations 
from graph-structured data, characterized by nodes as entities and edges 
as the connections between them (Zhang et al., 2019; Shen et al., 2026). 
The key concept behind GCNs is the aggregation of features from 
neighbor nodes to update each node representation (Zhao et al., 2022; 
Shen et al., 2026). The graph convolution operation is a key component 
of this process, and it can be formulated in various ways depending on 
the specific model and approximation techniques. The graph convolu­
tion operation is generally expressed as the application of a filter g to a 
graph signal x ∈Rn. Here n represents the number of nodes, and 
mathematically defined as: 
S.K. Lee et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
Engineering Applications of Artiϧcial Intelligence 179 (2026) 115273 
2


===== PAGE 3 =====

hgraph convolution = G(x, g) = U
(
UTx ⨀UTg
)
(1) 
where G represents the graph convolution, and U is the eigenvector 
matrix of the symmetric normalized graph Laplacian defined as L =
In- D-1/2AD-1/2, where D and A refer to the degree matrix and adjacency 
matrix of the graph, respectively. The operator ⨀ denotes the element 
wise Hadamard product. The matrix U contains the eigenvectors of the 
graph, while the filter g is applied to the graph signal x in the spectral 
domain. However, applying the graph convolution as defined above can 
be computationally expensive, especially for large graphs. To reduce the 
computational complexity, Defferrard et al. (2016) proposed the use of 
Chebyshev polynomials to approximate the graph filter, leading to the 
development of the ChebyNet model. The graph convolution in Che­
byNet is expressed as: 
gθ =
∑
K-1
k=0
θkTk(L )
(2) 
where L = 2L
λmax −In is the rescaled graph Laplacian, and Tk(L ) are the 
Chebyshev polynomials of order k. The Chebyshev polynomials are 
recursively defined as: 
T0(L ) = In, T1(L ) = L , Tk(L ) = 2L Tk-1(L ) −Tk-2(L )
(3) 
This approximation simplifies the graph convolution operation, as it 
reduces the need for explicit eigenvector computations while still 
capturing the essential properties of the graph. The graph convolution in 
ChebyNet can then be written as: 
hChebyNet = UgθUTx =
∑
K-1
k=0
θkTk(L )x
(4) 
This formulation makes the graph convolution process more 
computationally efficient, as it relies on a finite sum of Chebyshev 
polynomials rather than the full eigenvalue decomposition. Further 
simplifying the graph convolution, Kipf and Welling (2016) introduced 
the GCN, which approximates the graph convolution even more. GCN 
simplifies this further by using a normalized adjacency matrix, which 
significantly reduces the complexity and makes training scalable to large 
graphs. By assuming that the largest eigenvalue of the normalized graph 
Laplacian λmax ≈2, the filter in GCN simplifies to: 
hsimplified graph convolution = θ0x + θ1(L - In)x = θ0x + θ1D-1/2AD-1/2x
(5) 
For multi-layer GCNs, the feature representations are updated layer 
by layer. The hidden layer activations are computed as: 
H = σ
(̃
D-1/2̃ÃD-1/2XΘ
)
(6) 
where ̃A = A + In is the adjacency matrix with added self-loops, and ̃D is 
the corresponding degree matrix with ̃ Dii = ∑
j̃Aij. X represents the 
matrix of input feature, H is the matrix of output node features, Θ is the 
matrix of learnable parameters, and σ represents a non-linear activation 
function.
2.2. Graph-level fault diagnosis
In graph-level fault diagnosis the entire system is modeled as a graph, 
enabling a fault diagnosis not only at the component level but also at the 
system level. Unlike node-level approaches that represent faults as 
simple nodes (Sun et al., 2024; Gao et al., 2021), this method considers 
the complex interactions between all nodes and edges, making it 
particularly suitable for system-level fault diagnosis. To construct sys­
tem graphs, K-nearest neighbor graph (KNNGraph), and RadiusGraph 
are widely used (Li et al., 2022a; Zhang et al., 2025). With graphs 
constructed through these methods, the entire graph is treated as a 
single sample, and the training dataset consists of a collection of graphs. 
During the training process, the model learns to represent each entire 
graph as a single representation, capturing the changes in graph struc­
ture and information caused by system faults. 
hGraph-level representation = READOUT({hv|v ∈V})
(7) 
where hv is the feature vector in H, V is the number of nodes and 
READOUT denotes function that aggregates the node representation.
This process involves the model learning both node and edge infor­
mation across the entire graph. During training, the graph is reduced 
through pooling layers, and a readout layer compresses the pooled graph 
into a single representation. Therefore, changes in the graph structure 
due to fault are reflected in the reduced representation. Fig. 1 demon­
strates how a graph that effectively captures fault characteristics 
changes when a system fault occurs, while Fig. 2 provides a simplified 
illustration of the training process for graph-level fault diagnosis.
To ensure the effectiveness of graph-level fault diagnosis, two critical 
factors should be considered. First, the graph should be constructed to 
accurately reflect the system's fault characteristics so that changes in 
nodes and edges due to the system fault can be effectively captured by 
the model. Second, since the entire graph is reduced to a single repre­
sentation, it is essential to minimize information loss and redundancy. 
These considerations are key to achieving accurate and reliable fault 
diagnosis at the graph level.
2.3. System-level fault diagnosis
In system-level fault diagnosis, four characteristics should be mainly 
considered to make reliable and effective fault diagnosis models. First, 
as the fault components are subtle compared to operational components, 
significant changes in the acquired signal may not be evident (Kim et al., 
2023a; Park et al., 2019, 2021). For example, in current signals, the 
supply frequency is a dominant operational component, and removing 
such operational components can improve fault sensitivity. Second, 
representative signals acquired from machinery systems, such as cur­
rent, vibration, and acoustic signals, exhibit fault characteristics across 
different frequency bands (Smith and Randall, 2015; Jung et al., 2023). 
For example, for motor bearing fault with fault frequency at fv in vi­
bration signals appears at different frequency components in current 
signals. In current signal fault frequencies are modulated by the supply 
frequency fs, having fault frequencies at fs ±k fv in current signals 
(Orlowska-Kowalska et al., 2022). Therefore, frequency-domain fault 
information should be considered to accurately capture system charac­
teristics. Third, the contribution of each sensor varies depending on the 
fault type. In general, electrical faults tend to be more sensitive in cur­
rent signals, whereas mechanical faults are more sensitive in vibration 
signals. For example, in motor systems, bearing and misalignment faults 
are more clearly reflected in vibration signals, while stator faults are 
more clearly reflected in current signals (Gangsar and Tiwari, 2020). 
This makes it important to distinguish and quantify sensor importance 
according to fault mode. Finally, different fault modes exhibit different 
fault behaviors. While some faults, such as bearing faults, generate clear 
fault-specific frequencies, others are primarily reflected as changes in 
the energy of pre-existing frequency components, such as the rotational 
frequency and its harmonics, that are already present under normal 
operating conditions. In such cases, the fault is manifested as a variation 
in the magnitude of these existing components rather than as the 
emergence of new fault-specific frequencies. For example, shaft 
misalignment and unbalance faults induce energy shifts in the rotational 
frequency and its harmonics (Patel and Darpe, 2009; Tahir et al., 2016). 
Such variation makes accurate diagnosis of diverse fault modes more 
challenging and highlights the need to account for fault-specific 
characteristics.
S.K. Lee et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
Engineering Applications of Artiϧcial Intelligence 179 (2026) 115273 
3


===== PAGE 4 =====

Fig. 1. An illustration of system graph changes due to fault.
Fig. 2. An illustration of the graph-level graph representation process utilizing pooling and readout layer.
Fig. 3. Architecture of the proposed FBG-SEANet for graph-based, system-level fault diagnosis.
S.K. Lee et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
Engineering Applications of Artiϧcial Intelligence 179 (2026) 115273 
4


===== PAGE 5 =====

3. FBG-SEANet: frequency-band graph-based sensor fusion with 
sensitivity-aware energy assist network
3.1. Overall process
This study develops FBG-SEANet to tackle the following four key 
challenges in graph-based, system-level fault diagnosis: 
• Operational components mask fault features: The FBG applies the OCF 
with a notch filter to remove dominant operational components from 
raw signals, enhancing the visibility of subtle fault-related features.
• Fault information is spread across different frequency bands: The FBG 
uses band-pass filtering to construct subgraphs for each frequency 
band and connects them into the final graph, preserving band- 
specific fault characteristics.
• Sensor importance varies by fault mode: The SR layer adaptively 
measures and weights sensor contributions, emphasizing the most 
relevant sensors for each fault type and reducing redundancy.
• Energy shifts in pre-existing frequency components: The EA module 
embeds energy-related features into each node, enabling the model 
to capture and utilize energy variations in pre-existing frequency 
components for accurate diagnosis.
The architecture of FBG-SEANet is shown in Fig. 3. It contains two 
main steps: (1) the graph construction step and (2) the graph repre­
sentation step. In the graph construction step, multi-sensor signals are 
collected from the system and OCF is conducted to remove the effect of 
operational components. These preprocessed signals are then divided 
into frequency bands, and a subgraph is constructed for each frequency 
band, and the FBG is formed by connecting these subgraphs into the final 
graph. In the graph representation step, the EA module is employed to 
add energy features to nodes in input graphs, enriching the feature in­
formation. The input graphs are then trained using graph convolution 
layers, and the graph representation is pooled down using the SR layer, 
enabling a representation that considers the importance between the 
signals. Finally, fault classification is performed using the graph repre­
sentation and a dense layer. The following subsections provide detailed 
descriptions of each component in the proposed FBG-SEANet.
3.2. Frequency-band graph construction
In graph-level fault diagnosis, constructing graphs that accurately 
represent the system's fault characteristics is of great importance. To 
achieve this, graph construction progresses through two primary stages: 
a signal preprocessing stage that removes operational components from 
the signals, and a graph construction stage that employs band-pass filters 
to create frequency band-specific graphs, which are then connected to 
form the final graph.
3.2.1. Operation component filtering
In the signal preprocessing stage, OCF is conducted to remove the 
effect of operational components, with a notch filter specifically tuned to 
the required frequencies. Fig. 4 provides a graphical illustration of the 
notch filter used in the OCF process. In this figure, fnull denotes the 
average cutoff frequency, which is aligned with the system's operational 
frequency. This allows OCF to reduce large operating components 
within the signal, thereby emphasizing the relatively small fault char­
acteristics. This process helps to reflect the system's fault characteristics 
during the graph construction.
3.2.2. Frequency-band graph
Signals acquired from machinery systems exhibit fault characteris­
tics distributed across different frequency bands. However, these char­
acteristics are often not clearly expressed in raw signals due to the 
overlapping of information from multiple frequency bands. To address 
this issue, the proposed FBG is constructed by decomposing the acquired 
signal into multiple frequency bands and creating a subgraph for each 
band. The overall process of FBG construction is shown in Fig. 5.
The construction of the FBG relies on determining two critical pa­
rameters: the bandwidth (Bwidth) and the number of frequency bands (N). 
These parameters are determined based on a generic kinematic guide­
line designed to balance signal processing stability and computational 
efficiency. The governing rule for selecting the bandwidth involves a 
discrete step selection with safety margin. To ensure practical applica­
bility and standardized resolution, the bandwidth is selected in 10 Hz 
increments (e.g., 10, 20, 30 Hz). The specific value is chosen as the 
largest multiple of 10 that satisfies a safety margin constraint relative to 
the fundamental rotational frequency (fr) of the target system: 
Bwidth ≤α⋅fr
(8) 
Here, α is a safety coefficient established as 0.7. This constraint (Bwidth ≈
0.7⋅fr) ensures that the fundamental frequency (1×) is positioned 
securely within a band, avoiding the edge distortions and spectral 
leakage that can occur if Bwidth is too close to fr (e.g., if Bwidth ≈0.9⋅fr). 
Moreover, this constraint guarantees that the fundamental component 
(1×) and its subsequent harmonics (2×, 3×, etc.) are allocated to 
distinct frequency bands. This separation prevents multiple harmonic 
components from merging into a single node, thereby enabling the 
model to explicitly learn the inter-harmonic dependencies which are 
vital for diagnosing faults. Simultaneously, selecting the largest valid 
multiple of 10 maximizes the bandwidth size, thereby minimizing the 
total number of graph nodes and optimizing the computational cost for 
model training. For instance, for a system operating at 3000 rpm (fr ≈50 
Hz), 30 Hz was selected as the bandwidth. This setting effectively sep­
arates the harmonics while maintaining a compact graph structure. This 
bandwidth design provides a systematic frequency-band selection rule 
based on the rotational characteristics of the target system rather than 
an empirical hyperparameter choice. For a given stationary operating 
condition, the bandwidth and number of frequency bands are system­
atically determined from the corresponding rotational frequency. Thus, 
the FBG construction is not tied to a single operating speed, but can be 
adapted to different stationary operating conditions by recalculating the 
bandwidth parameters according to the target rotational frequency.
Once the bandwidth is determined, the number of frequency bands 
(N) is derived based on a frequency threshold (Fthreshold). This threshold is 
set to 1000 Hz to distinguish between the low-frequency range up to 
1000 Hz, which requires fine-grained nodes to capture deterministic 
fault features (e.g., harmonics and sidebands), and the high-frequency 
range above 1000 Hz, which is dominated by broadband stochastic 
features suitable for aggregation. Accordingly, the signal is divided into 
N-1 bands of width Bwidth up to Fthreshold, and the final N-th band captures 
all remaining high-frequency components.
Utilizing the determined bandwidth (Bwidth) and the number of fre­
quency bands (N), the detailed graph construction process is as follows:
First, for each of the M channels of multi-modal signals preprocessed 
by the OCF 
{
X1, X2,…XM
}
, band-pass filters are applied to divide each 
Fig. 4. Notch filter illustration.
S.K. Lee et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
Engineering Applications of Artiϧcial Intelligence 179 (2026) 115273 
5


===== PAGE 6 =====

signal into N frequency bands, resulting in a total of M × N signals {X11,
X12, …X1N}, {X21, X22, …X2N}… {XM1, XM2, …XMN}, where M is the 
number of sensors. Specifically, band-pass filters are applied to generate 
the first N-1 bands, whereas a high-pass filter is employed for the N-th 
band to retain all remaining high-frequency components. For example, if 
the bandwidth is set to 30 Hz and the number of bands N is 34, the first 
band ranges from 0 to 30 Hz, the second band from 30 to 60 Hz, and the 
final 34th band includes all signals above 990 Hz. Next, a sliding win­
dow is applied to segment each of these filtered signals into fixed-length 
signal samples xk
mn (m = 1, 2, 3, …, M; n = 1, 2, 3, …, N; k = 1, 2, 3, …, 
K). K is the number of segmented samples. For each segment, a graph is 
constructed, resulting in a total of K final graphs Gk
total (k = 1, 2, 3, …, K). 
For example, to construct G1
total, the first segments x1
mn (m = 1, 2, 3, …, M; 
n = 1, 2, 3, …, N) are used. Specifically, using the first frequency band of 
the M channels 
{
x1
11, x1
21, … x1
M1
}
, the first subgraph g1
1 is constructed 
using the KNNGraph method (Li et al., 2022a). Similarly, using the 
second frequency band 
{
x1
12, x1
22, … x1
M2
}
, the second subgraph g1
2 is 
constructed, and this process is repeated until the N-th subgraph g1
N is 
constructed using 
{
x1
1N, x1
2N, … x1
MN
}
. Finally, the N band-specific sub­
graphs {g1
1, g1
2, …, g1
N} are connected to form the final graph G1
total for the 
first segmentation. When connecting these subgraphs, nodes within the 
same acquisition signal's frequency bands, such as 
{
x1
11,x1
12,… x1
1N
}
, are 
connected, and similarly for other channels. This is because, although 
the signals are divided by frequency bands, they originate from a single 
acquisition signal X1, and therefore, nodes representing different 
frequency bands of the same acquisition signal can be connected by 
edges. The resulting K final graphs Gk
total (k = 1, 2, …, K) are then utilized 
for model training and testing.
The pseudocode of the proposed FBG construction is summarized 
below: 
Algorithm 1.
FBG construction process
Input: Multi-modal sensor signals preprocessed by the OCF (M sensors) Х =
{
X1,
X2,…XM
}
, Number of frequency bands N, Bandwidth size Bwidth, Sliding window 
length Wlen
Output: The set of frequency-band graphs Gset =
{
G1
total,G2
total,… GK
total
}
//Stage 1: Signal Decomposition
for each sensor m ← 1 to M do
for each frequency band n ← 1 to N do
if n < N then
Xmn ← BandPassFilter (Xm, cutoff frequency: (n-1)Bwidth, (n)Bwidth)
else
Xmn ← HighPassFilter (Xm, cutoff frequency: (N-1)Bwidth)
end if
end for
end for
//Stage 2: Segmentation and Graph Construction
Segment all {Xmn} into K samples 
{
xk
mn
}
using window Wlen
for each sample segment k ← 1 to K do
Initialize node set Vk, edge set Ek, and subgraph set Sk
sub←∅
//Step 2-1: Construct Band-specific Subgraphs
for each frequency band n ← 1 to N do
Define node features Uk
n =
{
xk
1n,xk
2n,… xk
Mn
}
(continued on next page)
Fig. 5. The overall process of FBG construction.
S.K. Lee et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
Engineering Applications of Artiϧcial Intelligence 179 (2026) 115273 
6


===== PAGE 7 =====

(continued)
Generate intra-band edges Ek
n using KNNGraph on Uk
n
Construct subgraph gk
n =
(
Uk
n,Ek
n
)
Sk
sub←Sk
sub ∪
{
gk
n
}
Update global sets: Vk←Vk ∪Uk
n, Ek←Ek ∪Ek
n
end for
//Step 2-2: Connect Subgraphs (Inter-band)
for each sensor m ← 1 to M do
for each frequency band n ← 1 to N-1 do
Select node u ∈gk
n (feature xk
mn) and node v ∈gk
n+1 (feature xk
m(n+1))
Add inter-band edge (u, v) to Ek
end for
end for
Form final graph Gk
total = (Vk,Ek) and add to Gset
end for
return Gset
3.3. Sensitivity-aware readout layer
The SR layer is constructed in the proposed SEANet using the self- 
attention method to better reflect the importance among signals dur­
ing the graph representation extraction process in graph-level fault 
diagnosis. Fig. 6 shows the architecture of the SR layer. The attention 
mechanism is implemented to reflect the differences in contributions 
among the sensors which contribute differently depending on the type of 
fault. For implementation, in the SR layer, attention scores are assigned 
to nodes and spatial attention is imposed. Following a standard multi- 
head attention formulation, the SR layer first computes unnormalized 
attention scores from the query and key representations (Wang et al., 
2025b). The scoring function for the attention mechanism is as follows: 
scoring function = QKT̅̅̅̅̅
dk
√
(9) 
where Q and K refer to the Query and Key vector in the attention 
mechanism, respectively, and Q ∈Rn×dk, K ∈Rn×dk where dk refers to the 
dimension of the K vector. Then, the attention weights can be obtained 
by feeding the score (zi) into the Softmax function. 
Softmax(zi) =
exp(zi)
∑n
j=1 exp(zi)
(10) 
In the multi-head attention mechanism, the attention computation is 
independently performed for each head using its own query, key, and 
value representations, and the resulting head-wise attention outputs are 
then fused to obtain the final attention weight (Wang et al., 2025b). In 
the proposed SR layer, the final attention weights are derived by aver­
aging the weights calculated by each head, where h denotes the number 
of attention heads in the multi-head attention mechanism. 
Multi-head attention weight = 1
h
∑
h
i=1
attention weight of headi
(11) 
Based on the final attention weights, weighted node representations 
are aggregated in the readout layer to form the final graph representa­
tion, thereby enabling graph representation considering signal 
importance.
3.4. Energy assist module
In order to diagnose some faults that have energy shift as a fault 
characteristic, the EA module is implemented in the proposed SEANet. 
These faults are not characterized by unique fault frequencies but rather 
by energy variations in pre-existing frequency bands, making them more 
difficult to diagnose. To effectively capture such energy variation, the 
root mean square (RMS) is utilized, as it is more effective than other 
statistical measures in representing the overall energy level of a signal.
Given an input graph, the EA module computes the RMS value from 
the time-domain signal of each node and embeds the energy information 
into the graph node features. Specifically, for node i with band-pass 
filtered signal xi of length L, the RMS value is computed as: 
RMSi =̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅̅
1
L
∑
L
j=1
x2
i,j
√
√
√
√
(12) 
The scalar RMS value is then projected into a d-dimensional (d = 16) 
energy feature vector through a dense layer: 
ei = ReLU(wRMSi + b)
(13) 
where w and b are learnable parameters. Finally, the energy feature is 
added to the original node feature to produce the EA-enriched node 
representation: 
hʹ
i = hi + ei
(14) 
where hi is the original node feature obtained from the FBG construction 
and hʹ
i is the updated representation used as input to the subsequent GCN 
layers. In this way, the EA module bridges the time-series and graph 
domains by embedding signal energy information into the graph node 
features prior to graph convolution. Fig. 7 shows the illustrations of the 
EA module. Fig. 7 (a) shows the architecture of the EA module. Given an 
input graph, the EA module computes the RMS value of each node's 
signal, and these values are then passed through a dense layer to extract 
energy features for each node. Fig. 7 (b) compares fault-frequency-band 
signals under normal and unbalance fault conditions. Each signal is 
obtained by band-pass filtering to 90–120 Hz. Since an unbalance fault 
induces an energy shift in the pre-existing rotational-frequency sideband 
near 110 Hz, the fault signal exhibits higher amplitude within this band. 
These energy variations are extracted as features by the EA module and 
embedded into each node enabling the graph to effectively represent 
fault characteristics reflected in energy shift of pre-existing frequency 
components.
Fig. 6. Architecture of the SR layer.
S.K. Lee et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
Engineering Applications of Artiϧcial Intelligence 179 (2026) 115273 
7


===== PAGE 8 =====

3.5. Model architecture and optimization
The detailed architecture and hyperparameter specifications of the 
proposed FBG-SEANet are summarized in Table 1. As illustrated in 
Fig. 3, the framework begins by enhancing the constructed FBG using 
the EA module, which embeds energy-shift features (RMS) into the 
nodes. The enriched graph is then processed through a hierarchical 
backbone consisting of two sequential blocks, each comprising a GCN 
layer and a pooling layer. To capture both local and global fault char­
acteristics, the outputs from each block are individually processed by SR 
layers and then fused via element-wise summation. Finally, the fused 
representation is classified through a dense layer. In this study, three 
parameters are optimized for the proposed method: 1) hidden channels 
of the GCN layer, 2) pooling ratio for training the graphs, 3) number of 
attention heads in SR layer. For the first two parameters related to 
training, the hidden channels of the GCN layer and the pooling ratio in 
the pooling layer, were set to 1024 and 0.5, respectively. The hidden 
channels and pooling ratio were optimized using a grid search, with the 
hidden channel values set to 256, 512, 1024, and 2048, and the pooling 
ratio values set to 0.7, 0.6, 0.5, 0.4, and 0.3, respectively. For the 
number of heads in the SR layer, the performance was evaluated by 
varying the value from 2 to 6 in increments of 1. The value was set to 4, 
as no significant performance improvement was observed beyond this 
point. During the training process, the maximum number of epochs was 
set to 100, with early stopping applied after 10 epochs and a batch size 
of 64. The GCN layers parameters were updated using a stochastic 
gradient descent (SGD) optimizer. The initial learning rate was set as 
0.01 with a momentum of 0.9.
4. Validation
The proposed FBG-SEANet was validated using three datasets: the 
KAIST rotating machinery dataset, the servo motor experimental data­
set, and the UAM system experimental dataset. Each dataset was used to 
compare the performance of the proposed method against graph-based 
and state-of-the-art (SOTA) models. Additionally, analyses were con­
ducted focusing on the unique characteristics of the dataset, such as fault 
modes and signal types. This enables a comprehensive evaluation of the 
algorithm's performance and interpretability. Table 2 shows the char­
acteristics and corresponding analysis of each dataset. The experiments 
were conducted on a desktop system running Windows 11, equipped 
with a 12th Gen Intel Core i7-12700KF CPU and an NVIDIA GeForce 
RTX 3090 GPU. All implementations were developed using Python 3.8 
and the PyTorch library. The detailed experimental settings and 
computational details for each case study are summarized in Table 3. 
The diagnosis accuracies of the proposed FBG-SEANet model and 
comparative models were calculated by averaging the results over five 
independent runs. All reported results for the test data are presented as 
the mean and standard error.
4.1. Case study 1: rotating machinery dataset
In this study, the diagnosis performance between the proposed 
model and conventional models was compared. Discussions on the re­
sults of graph similarity analysis, an ablation study, and feature visu­
alization were followed to verify the effectiveness of the proposed 
Fig. 7. Illustrations of the EA module: 
(a) module architecture (b) fault-frequency-band signals comparison.
Table 1 
Model architecture specifications and hyperparameter settings.
Hyperparameter
Search space
Optimized value
1. Network Architecture
GCN layer – hidden channels
{256, 512, 1024, 2048}
1024
Pooling layer – pooling ratio
{0.3, 0.4, 0.5, 0.6, 0.7}
0.5
SR layer – number of heads
{2,3,4,5,6}
4
2. Training Settings
Optimizer
-
SGD
Initial learning rate
-
0.01
Momentum
-
0.9
Batch size
-
64
Max epochs
-
100 (Early stopping: 10)
S.K. Lee et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
Engineering Applications of Artiϧcial Intelligence 179 (2026) 115273 
8


===== PAGE 9 =====

method. In particular, the discussion of this case study includes valida­
tion on the FBG and the EA module. This is because the dataset includes 
fault modes with relatively fewer distinctive fault characteristics, such 
as unbalance faults and misalignment faults, as well as fault modes with 
clear unique fault frequencies, such as bearing faults.
4.1.1. Experimental setup and FBG parameter settings
The KAIST rotating machinery testbed is open-source dataset pro­
vided by the Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology 
(KAIST) (Jung et al., 2023). Fig. 8 shows the overview of the KAIST 
rotating machinery testbed. The testbed operates at a speed of 3010 rpm, 
mainly consists of one brake, two bearing housings, rotors with a mass 
wheel, gearbox, torque meter, and a motor. The dataset contains four 
different fault modes: inner race fault (BPFI), outer race fault (BPFO) in 
bearing housing A, rotor unbalance faults and shaft misalignment faults. 
Vibration and current signals are collected under three different load 
conditions. Specifically, vibration data were measured in the x and 
y-direction at two bearing housings. Vibration and current signals are 
collected for all load conditions with a sampling rate of 25.6 kHz. The 
preprocessed sensor signals were segmented using a sliding window 
with a window size of 512 for graph construction. For each fault mode 
and the normal condition, 7000 samples were collected, resulting in a 
total of 35,000 samples. The dataset was divided into training, valida­
tion, and test sets in a 50:25:25 ratio. Table 4 summarizes the parameter 
settings used for the FBG construction. The parameters were determined 
based on the operating speed (fr ≈50.1 Hz). The bandwidth (Bwidth) was 
set to 30 Hz, which is the largest multiple of 10 satisfying the safety 
Table 2 
Dataset characteristics and corresponding analyses for each case study.
Case study
Dataset characteristics
Validation objective
Analysis
1
Includes fault modes with 
relatively fewer distinctive fault 
characteristics as well as fault 
modes with clear unique fault 
frequencies
FBG-SEANet
(4.1.2) Accuracy comparison
(4.1.4) Ablation study
FBG
(4.1.3) Graph similarity analysis
(4.1.4) Graph construction methods comparison
EA module
(4.1.5) Feature visualization
2
Includes both electrical and 
mechanical fault modes
FBG-SEANet
(4.2.2) Accuracy comparison
SR layer
(4.2.3) Attention score analysis
FBG-SEANet
(4.2.4) Filter parameter analysis
3
Includes more diverse modal 
signals acquired from a more 
complex system
FBG-SEANet
(4.3.2) Accuracy comparison
(4.3.3) Computational comparison
Table 3 
Experimental settings and computational details for each case study.
Case study 1
Case study 2
Case study 3
Experiment hardware setting
12th Gen Intel Core i7-12700KF CPU 
NVIDIA GeForce RTX 3090 GPU 
Python 3.8 and the PyTorch library
Number of sensors
5
4
7
Number of nodes per graph
170
136
182
Training samples
17500
5080
5000
Training time (min)
180
40
60
Inference time per sample (ms)
3
2
3
Fig. 8. System overview of the KAIST rotating machinery testbed.
Table 4 
Parameter settings for the FBG construction.
Parameter
Equation
Value
Rotational speed
-
3010 rpm
Rotating frequency (fr)
-
50.1 Hz
Safety coefficient (α)
-
0.7
Frequency threshold (Fthreshold)
-
1000
Bandwidth (Bwidth)
Bwidth ≤α⋅fr
30
Number of frequency bands (N)
N = Fthreshold/Bwidth + 1
34
S.K. Lee et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
Engineering Applications of Artiϧcial Intelligence 179 (2026) 115273 
9


===== PAGE 10 =====

margin condition relative to the fundamental frequency (3010/60 × 0.7 
≈35.1 Hz). Consequently, the number of frequency bands (N) was set to 
34, calculated by taking the integer part of 1000/30 and adding 1, to 
sufficiently cover the frequency range up to 1000 Hz.
4.1.2. Comparison study
Table 5 shows the diagnostic accuracy comparison between the FBG- 
SEANet and other graph-level approaches. The comparison includes 
conventional methods commonly used in graph-based model training 
GCN, GAT, Graph Isomorphic Networks (GIN), and GraphSAGE com­
bined with the KNNGraph graph construction method. In addition, 
SOTA graph-level models such as MMHGAT (Zhang et al., 2023), 
A-TSGNN (Wang et al., 2023), TFSG (Wang et al., 2024a), and HTSFG 
(Sun et al., 2026) were employed. Upon examining the results, the 
FBG-SEANet shows the highest accuracy, surpassing both existing con­
ventional methods and SOTA models. Notably, conventional methods 
exhibited lower performance with accuracies ranging from 78% to 80%. 
In contrast, SOTA models, including GraphSAGE, demonstrated perfor­
mance exceeding 94%. However, the proposed method outperformed all 
with an accuracy of 96.64%, showing higher performance. These results 
indicate that the graph construction method of the proposed approach 
accurately reflects the system's fault characteristics and that the model 
effectively learns these characteristics, thereby demonstrating the 
effectiveness of the proposed method.
4.1.3. FBG analysis through graph similarity score
This section evaluates the effectiveness of the proposed FBG in rep­
resenting the system's fault characteristics for graph-level fault diag­
nosis. To analyze the FBG effectiveness in capturing the system's fault 
characteristics, a similarity score is used. This score measures the simi­
larity between any two graphs by counting their number of common 
edges. A 'common edge’ is defined as an edge that connects an identical 
pair of nodes present in both graphs being compared. The total count of 
these edges is then used as the score value. 
Similarity score = COUNT(G1, G2)
(15) 
Here, COUNT denotes the operation that count the number of common 
edges between two graphs G1 and G2. When a fault occurs in the system, 
the graph changes compared to normal situation. These changes can be 
reflected in the similarity score. The extent of the change depends on 
how prominently the characteristics of a specific fault are represented. 
Fault modes with significant characteristics result in lower similarity 
scores compared to those with less characteristics. Fig. 9 shows the 
similarity score result between the graphs for four fault modes (inner 
race fault, outer race fault, misalignment, unbalance) and the normal 
graph in the dataset. To measure the similarity score, 300 graphs were 
randomly extracted for the normal state and each fault mode from the 
training dataset. The similarity scores between the 300 graphs of each 
fault mode and the 300 normal graphs were calculated and averaged. 
The results showed that the bearing inner race fault had the lowest 
similarity score at 50.81, followed by the outer race fault with a simi­
larity score of 52.77, which is higher than the inner race fault. 
Misalignment faults and unbalance faults, which are not bearing faults, 
exhibited significantly higher similarity scores of 57.41 and 58.83, 
respectively.
The following analysis results explain why different fault modes have 
different levels of similarity scores. Bearing faults have distinct fault 
frequencies, leading to a significant decrease in similarity scores. In 
contrast, misalignment and unbalance faults lack unique fault fre­
quencies, resulting in minor graph changes and a slight decrease in 
similarity scores compared to the normal state. Furthermore, even 
Table 5 
Accuracy comparison results.
Type
Model
Accuracy (%)
Conventional
GCN
79.18 ± 1.04
GAT
82.96 ± 0.36
GIN
89.22 ± 0.18
GraphSAGE
92.70 ± 0.35
SOTA
MMHGAT (Zhang et al., 2023)
95.68 ± 0.47
A-TSGNN (Wang et al., 2023)
79.87 ± 0.73
TSFG (Wang et al., 2024a)
92.20 ± 0.64
HTSFG (Sun et al., 2026)
95.58 ± 0.41
Proposed
FBG-SEANet
96.64 ± 0.49
Fig. 9. Similarity score comparison for each fault mode: 
(a) Inner race fault, (b) Outer race fault, (c) Misalignment fault, (d) Unbalance fault.
S.K. Lee et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
Engineering Applications of Artiϧcial Intelligence 179 (2026) 115273 
10


===== PAGE 11 =====

within the same category of bearing faults, the inner race fault has a 
lower similarity score than the outer race fault. This is because, unlike 
the outer race fault, the inner race fault not only has unique fault fre­
quencies but also includes modulation signals, resulting in more 
distinctive graphs than those of the outer race fault (Smith and Randall, 
2015). As the graph similarity analysis results align well with the actual 
fault characteristics, it can be concluded that the proposed FBG effec­
tively reflects the system's fault.
4.1.4. Graph construction methods comparison
In this section, the proposed FBG is compared with other commonly 
used graph construction methods for system-level fault diagnosis, 
including KNNGraph, RadiusGraph, and PathGraph (Li et al., 2022a). 
These conventional methods typically use raw sensor signals directly for 
node embedding. Table 6 shows the diagnostic performance of these 
conventional methods and the proposed FBG, all trained using the same 
GCN model to ensure a fair comparison. The results show that the model 
trained with the proposed FBG achieves diagnosis accuracy exceeding 
90%, whereas the conventional graph construction methods reach only 
around 80%. This performance gap arises because directly using raw 
sensor signals for node construction fails to effectively encode 
fault-specific characteristics into the graph. In particular, operational 
components tend to dominate the raw sensor signals, making it difficult 
for subtle fault features to stand out. Moreover, some fault characteris­
tics are distributed across multiple frequency bands, but in raw signals 
these components are often overlapped. As a result, such 
frequency-domain information cannot be effectively captured in the 
graph when using raw signals alone. In contrast, the proposed FBG 
effectively captures these subtle and frequency-distributed fault features 
in the graph, which leads to its improved diagnostic performance.
4.1.5. Ablation study and feature visualization
An ablation study was conducted to demonstrate the contribution of 
each component of the proposed method; the results are shown in 
Table 7. The results confirm that the proposed FBG, EA module and SR 
layer contribute to improved diagnosis accuracy. These results should be 
interpreted not only as numerical performance comparisons, but also as 
functional validation of the framework design. Replacing the KNN graph 
with the proposed FBG increases the diagnosis accuracy from 90.0% in 
Model 1 to 92.1% in Model 2, demonstrating the benefit of preserving 
fault-related frequency structure in the graph representation. The SR 
layer further improves the accuracy from 92.1% in Model 2 to 93.7% in 
Model 3 without the EA module, and from 95.3% in Model 4 to 96.6% in 
Model 5 with the EA module. These consistent gains indicate that the SR 
layer contributes to diagnosis performance by emphasizing fault- 
relevant node information during graph-level readout. This role is 
important because uniform aggregation can dilute diagnostically infor­
mative sensor-band components with less relevant nodes. Finally, the 
comparison between Model 3 and Model 5 shows that the EA module 
improves the accuracy from 93.7% to 96.6%, confirming its effective­
ness for faults characterized by energy shifts.
To further analyze the effectiveness of the EA module, t-distributed 
stochastic neighbor embedding (t-SNE) map visualization was also 
performed. The feature visualization for Model 3 and Model 5 are shown 
in Fig. 10(a) and (b), respectively. The Model 3 t-SNE visualization in 
Fig. 10(a), shows that the fault modes are generally well classified. 
However, differences between misalignment, unbalance, and normal are 
not evident. This is because misalignment and unbalance do not have 
unique fault frequencies and are characterized by changes in the energy 
of rotational frequencies, making their fault characteristics relatively 
weak. As a result, in the case of bearing faults with clear unique fault 
frequencies, the features are distinctly separated, whereas the features of 
misalignment and unbalance faults are closely distributed with normal 
features. In contrast, the t-SNE map for Model 5, depicted in Fig. 10(b), 
shows clear differences between misalignment, unbalance, and normal. 
This indicates that the EA module, which adds energy features of signals, 
helps clearly distinguish misalignment and unbalance faults from 
normal faults. In other words, it demonstrates that the EA module is 
necessary to clearly differentiate even those faults that do not have 
unique fault frequencies but are characterized by changes in the energy 
of pre-existing rotational frequencies. Furthermore, the training times of 
Model 3 and Model 5 showed no notable difference, indicating that the 
EA module introduces negligible computational overhead while effec­
tively improving the diagnosis of energy-shift-type faults. This is 
because the EA module adds only lightweight node-wise operations, 
namely the computation of a scalar root-mean-square value from the 
time-domain signal and its projection through a single dense layer. In 
contrast, the dominant computational cost of the overall framework 
arises from the graph convolution layers and the multi-head attention 
mechanism in the SR layer. Therefore, the EA module provides a 
favorable practical trade-off by improving fault separability without 
meaningfully increasing the computational cost.
4.2. Case study 2: motor dataset
In this study, diagnosis accuracies of the proposed model and com­
parison models were evaluated. Next, the results of attention score 
analysis were discussed to verify the effectiveness of the SR layer. The 
reason is that this dataset includes both electrical and mechanical fault 
modes. It is known that vibration signals are more sensitive for detecting 
mechanical faults, while current signals are more sensitive for detecting 
electrical faults (Gangsar and Tiwari, 2020). Therefore, in this section, 
using the motor dataset, the role of the SR layer was investigated 
through self-attention scores, and the signals with high attention scores 
for each fault mode were identified. The multi-head fusion strategy 
adopted in the SR layer was also examined by comparing three different 
fusion approaches. Additionally, to assess the robustness of the proposed 
method to its signal processing settings, a sensitivity analysis was con­
ducted on the notch filter and bandwidth selection used in the FBG 
construction.
4.2.1. Experimental setup and FBG parameter settings
The motor system depicted in Fig. 11 is a surface-mounted perma­
nent magnet synchronous motor (PMSM) with a rated power of 200 W, a 
torque capacity of 5.5 Nm, and 20 poles. Position control was imple­
mented using an incremental encoder offering a resolution of 4000 
pulses per revolution. Stator current signals from the three phases were 
acquired via Tektronix A622 current probes at a sampling rate of 
128,000/s. To evaluate fault diagnosis performance, three fault types 
were artificially introduced: a stator inter-turn short (SIS) as an elec­
trical fault, and misalignment and bearing faults as representative 
Table 6 
Comparison results of graph construction methods.
Graph type
Train model
Accuracy (%)
KNNGraph
GCN
79.18 ± 1.04
RadiusGraph
80.9 ± 7.34
PathGraph
80.6 ± 6.59
FBG (Proposed)
92.2 ± 2.22
Table 7 
Ablation study results.
Model type
Graph type
w/o SR 
layer
w/o EA 
module
Accuracy 
(%)
Model 1
KNNGraph (Li et al., 
2022a)
X
X
90
Model 2
Frequency-band
X
X
92.1
Model 3
Frequency-band
O
X
93.7
Model 4
Frequency-band
X
O
95.3
Model 5 
(Proposed)
Frequency-band
O
O
96.6
S.K. Lee et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
Engineering Applications of Artiϧcial Intelligence 179 (2026) 115273 
11


===== PAGE 12 =====

mechanical faults. The SIS fault was generated by winding exposed 
stator coils together, whereas the misalignment condition was emulated 
by vertically offsetting the shaft by 2 mm. For the operating conditions, 
the motor was rotated at 3000 rpm with a torque setting of 5.5 Nm. The 
preprocessed sensor signals were segmented using a sliding window 
with a length of 512. As a result, 2540 samples were generated for each 
fault mode and normal condition, yielding a total of 10,160 samples. 
These data were split into training, validation, and test sets in a ratio of 
50:25:25.
Table 8 summarizes the parameter settings used for the FBG con­
struction. The parameters were determined based on the operating 
speed (fr ≈50 Hz). The bandwidth (Bwidth) was set to 30 Hz, which is the 
largest multiple of 10 satisfying the safety margin condition relative to 
the fundamental frequency (3000/60 × 0.7 ≈35 Hz). Consequently, the 
number of frequency bands (N) was set to 34, calculated by taking the 
integer part of 1000/30 and adding 1, to sufficiently cover the frequency 
range up to 1000 Hz.
4.2.2. Comparison study
Table 9 shows the comparison results. For a fair comparison, the 
same conventional and SOTA models used in case study 1 were 
employed. Upon examining the results, the FBG-SEANet achieved the 
highest accuracy, surpassing both existing conventional methods and 
SOTA models. Notably, conventional models showed lower performance 
with accuracies around 80%, while SOTA models, including GraphS­
AGE, demonstrated performance exceeding 94%. The proposed method 
outperformed all comparison models, achieving an accuracy of 96.43%. 
These results indicate that the proposed graph construction method 
reflects the system's fault characteristics and that the model effectively 
learns these characteristics, thereby demonstrating the effectiveness of 
the proposed method.
To further analyze the diagnosis results, the confusion matrix and t- 
SNE visualization of the proposed FBG-SEANet are presented in Fig. 12. 
Fig. 10. t-SNE visualization for two different models: (a) Model 3, (b) Model 5.
Fig. 11. System overview of the SNU motor testbed.
Table 8 
Parameter settings for the FBG construction.
Parameter
Equation
Value
Rotational speed
-
3000 rpm
Rotating frequency (fr)
-
50 Hz
Safety coefficient (α)
-
0.7
Frequency threshold (Fthreshold)
-
1000
Bandwidth (Bwidth)
Bwidth ≤α⋅fr
30
Number of frequency bands (N)
N = Fthreshold/Bwidth + 1
34
Table 9 
Accuracy comparison results.
Type
Model
Accuracy (%)
Conventional
GCN
82.70 ± 4.08
GAT
83.16 ± 6.04
GIN
77.84 ± 12.49
GraphSAGE
95.71 ± 0.36
SOTA
MMHGAT (Zhang et al., 2023)
95.24 ± 1.37
A-TSGNN (Wang et al., 2023)
94.07 ± 1.68
TSFG (Wang et al., 2024a)
94.94 ± 1.86
HTSFG (Sun et al., 2026)
94.31 ± 5.31
Proposed
FBG-SEANet
96.43 ± 0.31
S.K. Lee et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
Engineering Applications of Artiϧcial Intelligence 179 (2026) 115273 
12


===== PAGE 13 =====

As shown in Fig. 12(a), the proposed method achieved high classifica­
tion performance across all fault modes, with the bearing fault being 
classified without misclassification. The few misclassifications were 
mainly observed among the normal, misalignment, and SIS classes, 
indicating that these classes contain partially overlapping signal char­
acteristics. Fig. 12(b) shows that the learned graph-level features form 
distinguishable clusters for each fault mode. In particular, the bearing 
fault cluster is clearly separated from the other classes, which is 
consistent with the confusion matrix result. These visualization results 
provide a more detailed interpretation of the diagnosis results by 
showing both class-wise diagnostic performance and feature-level 
separability.
4.2.3. SR layer analysis
The proposed method includes an SR layer to effectively assign 
importance to different signals according to the fault mode. To analyze 
its effectiveness, the self-attention scores of all nodes were examined for 
each fault mode, where a higher score indicates a greater contribution to 
the diagnosis. Table 10 ranks the signal types by their diagnosis 
importance, determined by the frequency of their corresponding nodes 
appearing among the top 20 nodes with the highest attention scores. The 
signal ranked first is the one most frequently identified as critical for 
diagnosing a specific fault. The results show that the SIS fault, an elec­
trical fault, exhibits high attention scores for current signals while me­
chanical faults such as misalignment and bearing faults show the highest 
attention scores for a vibration signal. These results indicate that the SR 
layer effectively reflects the importance of signals according to fault 
modes in graph representation. This role is particularly important in 
graph-level fault diagnosis, because the readout stage compresses node- 
level information into a single graph embedding. If all nodes are 
aggregated uniformly, diagnostically important information from highly 
sensitive sensor-band components can be diluted by less informative 
nodes. By assigning fault-dependent importance scores before aggrega­
tion, the SR layer enables the final graph representation to preserve the 
most relevant fault characteristics while suppressing redundant contri­
butions. Therefore, the contribution of the SR layer extends beyond a 
simple weighting operation; it functions as a fault-sensitive graph-level 
readout mechanism and an interpretable node-importance estimator. 
This leads to a more discriminative and physically interpretable graph 
representation for fault diagnosis.
The interpretability of the attention scores is closely related to the 
multi-head fusion strategy used in the SR layer. To examine this, three 
fusion strategies were compared: (1) averaging (proposed), (2) concat­
enation followed by linear projection, and (3) learnable weighted fusion. 
A comparison of the multi-head fusion strategies used in the SR layer is 
presented in Fig. 13. The corresponding accuracies are 96.43%, 94.37%, 
and 96.61%, respectively. Importantly, the role of the SR layer differs 
from that of standard multi-head attention in transformers. In standard 
multi-head attention, concatenation and projection are used to fuse 
head-wise feature representations. In contrast, the SR layer aggregates 
head-wise attention weights into a single scalar importance score for 
each node. Under this setting, averaging provides a direct and 
parameter-free way to aggregate head-wise evidence into a unified 
node-importance score.
The comparison results show that averaging substantially out­
performs concatenation-projection, suggesting that introducing an 
additional feature-space transformation is less suitable for this scalar 
weight aggregation step. Such a design may also increase the risk of 
overfitting, particularly in relatively small-graph settings, by adding 
unnecessary capacity to a module whose role is only to produce a scalar 
importance score. Learnable weighted fusion achieves a slightly higher 
accuracy (+0.18%), but this gain is marginal relative to the additional 
learnable parameters and computational cost introduced during 
training. Therefore, averaging was adopted as the default fusion strategy 
because it offers a favorable trade-off among accuracy, simplicity, effi­
ciency, and interpretability.
4.2.4. Sensitivity analysis of filter parameters
The proposed FBG construction relies on two signal-processing 
stages: the OCF with a notch filter and band-pass filtering with a spec­
ified bandwidth. To examine the sensitivity of the proposed method to 
these filter parameters, two analyses were conducted. Table 11
Fig. 12. Visualization of fault diagnosis results for the motor system dataset: 
(a) confusion matrix, (b) t-SNE visualization.
Table 10 
Results of the self-attention score analysis.
1
2
3
4
SIS (Electric fault)
Current_V
Current_U
Current_W
Vibration_X
Misalignment (Mechanical fault)
Vibration_X
Current_U
Current_W
Current_V
Bearing (Mechanical fault)
Vibration_X
Current_V
Current_W
Current_U
S.K. Lee et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
Engineering Applications of Artiϧcial Intelligence 179 (2026) 115273 
13


===== PAGE 14 =====

summarizes the sensitivity analysis results for the filter parameters, and 
Fig. 14 illustrates the comparison of diagnosis accuracy across different 
bandwidth settings.
First, the effect of the notch filter was evaluated by comparing the 
proposed method with and without the OCF. As shown in Table 11, 
removing the OCF reduces the accuracy from 96.43% to 82.85%. This 
can be attributed to the dominant operational components in the raw 
signals, which mask subtle fault-related features across the frequency 
bands and make it more difficult for the resulting FBG to preserve 
diagnostically useful fault characteristics. The center frequency of the 
notch filter is determined by the known operating frequency of the 
target system, rather than being arbitrarily selected. Therefore, the OCF 
improves fault sensitivity while limiting the risk of suppressing fault- 
relevant frequency components.
Second, the sensitivity to bandwidth selection was examined based 
on the bandwidth selection rule introduced in Section 3.2.2. For the 
system considered in this case study, 30 Hz was selected as the band­
width, and additional experiments were conducted by varying the 
bandwidth from 10 Hz to 50 Hz in increments of 10 Hz to evaluate the 
robustness. As shown in Table 11 and Fig. 14, the selected bandwidth of 
30 Hz achieves the highest accuracy.
When the bandwidth is smaller than the selected setting, such as 10 
Hz and 20 Hz, two issues arise. First, narrower band-pass filters can lead 
to longer impulse responses relative to the analysis window, which may 
introduce spectral leakage and transition-band distortion. This can 
reduce the fidelity of the filtered signal and lead to information loss in 
the node features. Second, smaller bandwidths produce a significantly 
larger number of graph nodes, with 404 nodes at 10 Hz compared with 
136 nodes at 30 Hz. This increases model complexity and potentially 
increases the risk of overfitting.
Conversely, when the bandwidth exceeds the selected range, such as 
40 Hz and 50 Hz, each frequency band spans a wider spectral range, 
causing multiple harmonic components to be merged into a single node. 
As a result, fault-characteristic energy becomes diluted across a broader 
band, reducing the discriminative power of each node feature. This 
weakens the model's ability to capture inter-harmonic dependencies that 
are important for distinguishing different fault modes. Overall, the re­
sults indicate that the bandwidth selection rule is appropriate for pre­
serving diagnostically relevant spectral structure while maintaining a 
compact graph representation.
4.3. Case study 3: UAM system dataset
In this study, a comparison of accuracy between the proposed model 
and comparison models was conducted. The purpose of this case study 
was to verify the effectiveness of the proposed method by utilizing more 
diverse multi-modal signals acquired from a more complex system 
compared to the previous case studies.
4.3.1. Experimental setup and FBG parameter settings
The UAM testbed shown in Fig. 15 includes three BLDC motors with 
blades, a tilting linkage with an actuator, and a wing. Specifically, the 
tilting mechanism used in the lift and cruise mode is implemented 
through a linkage with an actuator, allowing the front tilt motor to tilt 
from 0◦to 90◦. The side motor at the wingtip and the back motor are not 
tiltable that are used for assistance during the ascent. The pylon 
composed of tilt motor, back motor, and tilting mechanism is connected 
to the lower part of the wing via bolt-type load cells, enabling the 
measurement of the load acting between the pylon and the wing. The T- 
motor AT 7224 KV190 with a maximum thrust of 17.7 kg is used as the 
BLDC motor and the wings are made of woven CFRP(carbon fiber/ 
epoxy) composite material and have two ribs attached internally.
The testbed is equipped with current and vibration sensors, strain 
gauges, and load sensors, allowing for the acquisition of various multi- 
modal signals. DEWESOFT-R8 IOLITE DAQ was used to collect these 
multi-modal signals, with a sampling rate set to 10,000 Hz. The acquired 
data included one channel of current signals of the tilt motor, one 
channel of single axis vibration signal generated by the tilt motor, and 
strain changes in the wing during operation obtained through two strain 
gauges. Additionally, two bolt-type load sensors connecting the pylon 
and the wing were used to capture load changes between the pylon and 
the wing during operation.
Experiments simulating the operation of the UAM were conducted, 
Fig. 13. Comparison of multi-head fusion strategies in the SR layer.
Table 11 
Sensitivity analysis results for filter parameters.
Analysis
Type/Bandwidth (Bwidth)
Accuracy (%)
OCF ablation
With OCF (proposed)
96.43 ± 0.31
Without OCF
82.85 ± 4.27
Bandwidth sensitivity analysis
10 Hz
87.07 ± 0.90
20 Hz
90.67 ± 0.67
30 Hz (proposed)
96.43 ± 0.31
40 Hz
94.27 ± 0.30
50 Hz
95.07 ± 0.42
Fig. 14. Comparison of diagnosis accuracy across different bandwidth settings.
S.K. Lee et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
Engineering Applications of Artiϧcial Intelligence 179 (2026) 115273 
14


===== PAGE 15 =====

where the three motors rotated at a constant speed of 4000 rpm, and the 
tilt motor followed a triangular drive profile by tilting from 0◦to 90◦and 
then returning to 0◦. Additionally, the experiments were performed with 
two different system fault modes, including inter-turn short fault in the 
tilt motor and demagnetization fault. The preprocessed sensor signals 
were segmented using a sliding window of length 512, resulting in 2500 
samples for the normal condition and for each fault mode, yielding a 
total of 10,000 samples. These data were split into training, validation, 
and test sets in a ratio of 50:25:25.
Table 12 summarizes the parameter settings used for the FBG con­
struction. The parameters were determined based on the operating 
speed (fr ≈66.7 Hz). The bandwidth (Bwidth) was set to 40 Hz, which is 
the largest multiple of 10 satisfying the safety margin condition relative 
to the fundamental frequency (4000/60 × 0.7 ≈46.7 Hz). Conse­
quently, the number of frequency bands (N) was set to 26, calculated by 
taking the integer part of 1000/40 and adding 1, to sufficiently cover the 
frequency range up to 1000 Hz.
4.3.2. Comparison study
Table 13 presents the comparison results. For a fair comparison, the 
same classical models and state-of-the-art models used in Case Studies 1 
and 2 were employed. Upon examining the results, the FBG-SEANet 
achieved the highest accuracy, surpassing both existing conventional 
methods and SOTA models. Specifically, the conventional classical 
models showed relatively high performance with accuracies above 95%, 
and except for the A-TSGNN model, SOTA models demonstrated per­
formances exceeding 96%. However, the proposed method out­
performed all with an accuracy of 98.68%. Notably, the proposed 
method had the lowest variation at 0.23 among the comparison models, 
Fig. 15. System overview of the SNU UAM testbed: 
(a) testbed components (b) tilt motor (c) sensor signal acquisition system.
Table 12 
Parameter settings for the FBG construction.
Parameter
Equation
Value
Rotational speed
-
4000 rpm
Rotating frequency (fr)
-
66.7 Hz
Safety coefficient (α)
-
0.7
Frequency threshold (Fthreshold)
-
1000
Bandwidth (Bwidth)
Bwidth ≤α⋅fr
40
Number of frequency bands (N)
N = Fthreshold/Bwidth + 1
26
Table 13 
Accuracy comparison results.
Type
Model
Accuracy (%)
Conventional
GCN
96.79 ± 0.87
GAT
97.76 ± 0.62
GIN
94.85 ± 2.66
GraphSAGE
92.89 ± 3.54
SOTA
MMHGAT (Zhang et al., 2023)
96.15 ± 0.73
A-TSGNN (Wang et al., 2023)
81.26 ± 2.97
TSFG (Wang et al., 2024a)
96.90 ± 0.62
HTSFG (Sun et al., 2026)
95.15 ± 0.74
Proposed
FBG-SEANet
98.68 ± 0.23
S.K. Lee et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
Engineering Applications of Artiϧcial Intelligence 179 (2026) 115273 
15


===== PAGE 16 =====

indicating that the proposed method was trained stably and effectively 
learned the system's fault characteristics. Therefore, it was confirmed 
that the FBG-SEANet effectively learned the fault characteristics of the 
system by utilizing diverse modal signals acquired from a complex 
system, thereby demonstrating the proposed method's effectiveness in 
multi-sensor, multi-modal fusion.
4.3.3. Computational cost and scalability analysis
To further evaluate the practical feasibility of the proposed method, 
the computational cost was compared with conventional baseline graph 
models using the UAM system dataset. Case Study 3 was selected for this 
analysis because it contains the largest graph among the three case 
studies, with seven sensor channels. All models were evaluated under 
the same hardware and implementation settings, and the results are 
summarized in Table 14. The results show that FBG-SEANet requires a 
slightly longer training time than the baseline graph models. This in­
crease is mainly attributed to the frequency-band graph representation 
and the sensitivity-aware readout layer, which introduce additional 
graph-level feature learning compared with conventional graph models. 
However, the inference time of FBG-SEANet remains 3 ms per sample, 
which is comparable to those of the baseline models. In addition, FBG- 
SEANet achieves the highest diagnosis accuracy of 98.68 ± 0.23%, 
indicating that the additional training cost provides improved diagnosis 
performance while maintaining practical inference efficiency.
Regarding scalability, the number of nodes in the proposed FBG is 
determined by M × N, where M is the number of sensor channels and N 
is the number of frequency bands. Therefore, under a fixed frequency- 
band setting, the graph size increases linearly with the number of sen­
sors. It should be noted that this increase in computational cost is not 
unique to the proposed method; baseline graph models also require 
additional computation as the number of sensor nodes increases. How­
ever, the proposed method is designed to exploit the increased sensor 
information more effectively by constructing sensor-band-specific nodes 
and applying the SR layer to learn fault-dependent sensor-band impor­
tance. Therefore, although the training cost may increase as more sen­
sors are added, the proposed framework has the potential to provide 
stronger sensor fusion capability than conventional graph models in 
large-scale multi-sensor systems. Overall, these results demonstrate that 
FBG-SEANet achieves the highest diagnosis accuracy while maintaining 
reasonable training time and millisecond-level inference, indicating a 
favorable trade-off between computational cost and diagnostic 
performance.
5. Conclusion
This study introduces the frequency band graph-based sensor fusion 
with sensitivity-aware energy assist network (FBG-SEANet), a novel 
graph-level sensor fusion method designed to enhance fault diagnosis in 
machinery systems. First, the proposed frequency-band graph (FBG) is 
constructed to effectively reflect the fault characteristics across multi- 
sensor signals in the input graph. Then, the proposed sensitivity-aware 
energy assist network (SEANet) is employed to effectively represent 
the constructed graph. Specifically, the energy assist (EA) module in 
SEANet enriches node embedding features with energy-based features 
helping diagnose fault modes characterized by energy changes in pre- 
existing frequency components. In addition, the sensitivity-aware 
readout (SR) layer is utilized to capture the relative importance 
among sensors, thereby preventing information dilution and reducing 
redundancy.
To verify the FBG-SEANet performance, three datasets involving an 
open rotating machinery dataset, a motor experimental dataset, and an 
UAM system experimental dataset were used for validation. In each 
study, the proposed method outperformed conventional graph-based 
models (i.e., GCN, GAT, GIN and GraphSAGE) and state-of-the-art 
(SOTA) methods (i.e., MMHGAT, A-TSGNN, TSFG, and HTSFG), 
achieving higher accuracy with lower variances. For further analysis of 
the FBG-SEANet, a similarity score was used to demonstrate the FBG 
superiority in representing system fault characteristics. An ablation 
study was conducted to verify the significant contributions of each 
component of the proposed method. Furthermore, feature visualization 
is demonstrated to highlight the improved differentiation enabled by the 
EA module. Overall, the proposed method effectively fuses multi-modal 
signal information for fault diagnosis, addressing the limitations of 
conventional methods.
Although the proposed method demonstrates strong capabilities in 
graph construction and representation, achieving high fault diagnosis 
performance, it remains limited to stationary operating conditions due 
to the reliance on fixed-frequency band-pass filtering for FBG con­
struction, whose parameters are derived from a constant rotational 
speed. Under non-stationary operating conditions, the frequency- 
domain fault characteristics shift with the varying rotational fre­
quency, making it difficult to construct an FBG that consistently repre­
sents the intended fault information using fixed band-pass filters. 
Therefore, future work will focus on extending FBG-SEANet to non- 
stationary operating conditions by redesigning the graph construction 
process through techniques such as order tracking or short-time Fourier 
transform (STFT)-based adaptive band construction, incorporating 
additional sensor modalities, and evaluating its applicability and 
robustness in diverse industrial environments.
CRediT authorship contribution statement
Sang Kyung Lee: Writing – review & editing, Writing – original 
draft, Validation, Methodology, Investigation, Conceptualization. 
Hyeongmin Kim: Validation, Methodology, Conceptualization. Min­
seok Chae: Writing – review & editing, Validation, Data curation. 
Hansoo Kim: Writing – review & editing, Methodology, Conceptuali­
zation. Joonho Yang: Visualization, Conceptualization. Heonjun 
Yoon: Writing – review & editing, Visualization, Methodology, 
Conceptualization. Byeng D. Youn: Writing – review & editing, Su­
pervision, Funding acquisition, Conceptualization.
Declaration of competing interest
The authors declare that they have no known competing financial 
interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence 
the work reported in this paper.
Acknowledgements
This research was supported by the International Research & 
Development Program of the National Research Foundation of Korea 
(NRF) 
funded 
by 
the 
Ministry 
of 
Science 
and 
ICT 
(2022K1A4A7A04096329) and by the Korea government (MSIT) (IITP- 
2025-RS-2022-00156360, Innovative HRD for Local Intellectualization) 
supervised by the IITP (Institute for Information & communications 
Technology Planning & Evaluation).
Table 14 
Computational comparison with baseline models.
Model
Training time 
(min)
Inference time per sample 
(ms)
Accuracy (%)
GCN
40
3
96.79 ± 0.87
GAT
50
2
97.76 ± 0.62
GIN
45
2
94.85 ± 2.66
GraphSAGE
35
2
92.89 ± 3.54
FBG- 
SEANet
60
3
98.68 ± 0.23
S.K. Lee et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
Engineering Applications of Artiϧcial Intelligence 179 (2026) 115273 
16


===== PAGE 17 =====

Data availability
The data that has been used is confidential.
References
Chen, C., Wang, T., Mao, D., Liu, Y., Cheng, L., 2025. A multi-scale graph pyramid 
attention network with knowledge distillation towards edge computing robotic fault 
diagnosis. Expert Syst. Appl. 260, 125469.
Choudhary, A., Fatima, S., Panigrahi, B., 2022. State-of-the-art technologies in fault 
diagnosis of electric vehicles: a component-based review. IEEE Trans. Transp. 
Electrif. 9, 2324–2347.
Dai, W., Quek, Z.H., Low, K.H., 2024. Probabilistic modeling and reasoning of conflict 
detection effectiveness by tracking systems towards safe urban air mobility 
operations. Reliab. Eng. Syst. Saf. 244, 109908.
Defferrard, M., Bresson, X., Vandergheynst, P., 2016. Convolutional neural networks on 
graphs with fast localized spectral filtering. Adv. Neural Inf. Process. Syst. 29.
Feng, Z., Hu, H., Yang, S., 2023a. Cross-sensor correlative feature learning and fusion for 
intelligent fault diagnosis. IEEE Trans. Ind. Inf. 20 (3), 3664–3674.
Feng, Z., Wu, Q., Yang, S., 2023b. Temporal local correntropy representation for fault 
diagnosis of machines. IEEE Trans. Ind. Inf. 19, 11868–11877.
Gangsar, P., Tiwari, R., 2020. Signal based condition monitoring techniques for fault 
detection and diagnosis of induction motors: a state-of-the-art review. Mech. Syst. 
Signal Process. 144, 106908.
Gao, Y., Chen, M., Yu, D., 2021. Semi-supervised graph convolutional network and its 
application in intelligent fault diagnosis of rotating machinery. Measurement 186, 
110084.
Han, Y., Tuo, S., Li, Y., Zhao, Q., 2024. Multi-relational fusion graph convolution 
network with multi-scale residual network for fault diagnosis of complex industrial 
processes. IEEE Trans. Instrum. Meas.
He, Q., Pang, Y., Jiang, G., Xie, P., 2020. A spatio-temporal multiscale neural network 
approach for wind turbine fault diagnosis with imbalanced SCADA data. IEEE Trans. 
Ind. Inf. 17, 6875–6884.
Huang, Y., Chen, C.-H., Huang, C.-J., 2019. Motor fault detection and feature extraction 
using RNN-based variational autoencoder. IEEE Access 7, 139086–139096.
Jung, W., Kim, S.-H., Yun, S.-H., Bae, J., Park, Y.-H., 2023. Vibration, acoustic, 
temperature, and motor current dataset of rotating machine under varying operating 
conditions for fault diagnosis. Data Brief 48, 109049.
Kim, H., Park, C.H., Suh, C., Chae, M., Oh, H.J., Yoon, H., Youn, B.D., 2023a. Stator 
current operation compensation (SCOC): a novel preprocessing method for deep 
learning-based fault diagnosis of permanent magnet synchronous motors under 
variable operating conditions. Measurement 221, 113446.
Kim, H., Park, C.H., Suh, C., Chae, M., Yoon, H., Youn, B.D., 2023b. MPARN: multi-scale 
path attention residual network for fault diagnosis of rotating machines. J. Comput. 
Des. Eng. 10, 860–872.
Kipf, T.N., Welling, M., 2016. Semi-supervised classification with graph convolutional 
networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1609.02907.
Li, T., Zhou, Z., Li, S., Sun, C., Yan, R., Chen, X., 2022a. The emerging graph neural 
networks for intelligent fault diagnostics and prognostics: a guideline and a 
benchmark study. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 168, 108653.
Li, W., Huang, R., Li, J., Liao, Y., Chen, Z., He, G., Yan, R., Gryllias, K., 2022b. 
A perspective survey on deep transfer learning for fault diagnosis in industrial 
scenarios: theories, applications and challenges. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 167, 
108487.
Li, Y., Zhang, L., Liang, P., Wang, X., Wang, B., Xu, L., 2024. Semi-supervised meta-path 
space extended graph convolution network for intelligent fault diagnosis of rotating 
machinery under time-varying speeds. Reliab. Eng. Syst. Saf. 251, 110363.
Miao, M., Wang, Y., Yu, J., 2024. Temporal self-supervised domain adaptation network 
for machinery fault diagnosis under multiple non-ideal conditions. Reliab. Eng. Syst. 
Saf. 251, 110347.
Orlowska-Kowalska, T., Wolkiewicz, M., Pietrzak, P., Skowron, M., Ewert, P., 
Tarchala, G., Krzysztofiak, M., Kowalski, C.T., 2022. Fault diagnosis and fault- 
tolerant control of PMSM drives–state of the art and future challenges. IEEE Access 
10, 59979–60024.
Park, C.H., Lee, J., Kim, H., Suh, C., Youn, M., Shin, Y., Ahn, S.-H., Youn, B.D., 2021. 
Drive-tolerant current residual variance (DTCRV) for fault detection of a permanent 
magnet synchronous motor under operational speed and load torque conditions. 
IEEE Access 9, 49055–49068.
Park, J., Hamadache, M., Ha, J.M., Kim, Y., Na, K., Youn, B.D., 2019. A positive energy 
residual (PER) based planetary gear fault detection method under variable speed 
conditions. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 117, 347–360.
Patel, T.H., Darpe, A.K., 2009. Experimental investigations on vibration response of 
misaligned rotors. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 23, 2236–2252.
Qin, Y., Shi, X., 2022. Fault diagnosis method for rolling bearings based on two-channel 
CNN under unbalanced datasets. Appl. Sci. 12, 8474.
Shen, D., Du, S., Wang, S., Yan, L., Li, S., Chen, X., 2026. An improved variational 
autoencoder and graph attention network method for wear prediction of aerospace 
self-lubricating bearing using acoustic emission signal. IEEE Sens. J.
Smith, W.A., Randall, R.B., 2015. Rolling element bearing diagnostics using the case 
Western Reserve University data: a benchmark study. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 64, 
100–131.
Straubinger, A., Rothfeld, R., Shamiyeh, M., Buchter, K.-D., Kaiser, J., Plotner, K.O., 
2020. An overview of current research and developments in urban air 
mobility–setting the scene for UAM introduction. J. Air Transport. Manag. 87, 
101852.
Sun, K., Huang, Z., Mao, H., Qin, A., Li, X., Tang, W., Xiong, J., 2021. Multi-scale cluster- 
graph convolution network with multi-channel residual network for intelligent fault 
diagnosis. IEEE Trans. Instrum. Meas. 71, 1–12.
Sun, K., Yin, A., Hu, Y., Li, L., Qi, Z., 2026. Hierarchical temporal-spatial graph fusion 
federated generalization for machine fault diagnosis. Adv. Eng. Inform. 69, 104091.
Sun, K., Yin, A., Lu, S., Chen, S., Sun, Z., 2024. Time graph sub-domain adaption 
adversarial for fault diagnosis. Meas. Sci. Technol. 35, 055004.
Sun, X., Li, Z., Wang, X., Li, C., 2019. Technology development of electric vehicles: a 
review. Energies 13, 90.
Tahir, M.M., Hussain, A., Badshah, S., Khan, A.Q., Iqbal, N., 2016. Classification of 
unbalance and misalignment faults in rotor using multi-axis time domain features. 
In: 2016 International Conference on Emerging Technologies (ICET). IEEE, pp. 1–4.
Tian, Y., Wang, Z., Zhang, L., Lu, C., Ma, J., 2018. A subspace learning-based feature 
fusion and open-set fault diagnosis approach for machinery components. Adv. Eng. 
Inform. 36, 194–206.
Veliˇckovi´c, P., Cucurull, G., Casanova, A., Romero, A., Lio, P., Bengio, Y., 2017. Graph 
attention networks. arXiv preprint arXiv:1710.10903.
Wang, L., Xie, F., Zhang, X., Jiang, L., Huang, B., 2024a. Spatial-temporal graph feature 
learning driven by time–frequency similarity assessment for robust fault diagnosis of 
rotating machinery. Adv. Eng. Inform. 62, 102711.
Wang, S., Jia, Z., Liu, Z., Tang, Y., Qin, X., Wang, X., 2025a. Self-supervised contrast 
learning based UAV fault detection and interpretation with spatial–temporal 
information of multivariate flight data. Expert Syst. Appl. 267, 126156.
Wang, Y., Wang, S., Du, S., Shen, X., Li, S., Chen, X., 2025b. MTCAT: a modern temporal 
convolution and enhanced attention transformer model for remaining useful life 
prediction of aerospace self-lubricating bearings. IEEE Sens. J.
Wang, Z., Wu, Z., Li, X., Shao, H., Han, T., Xie, M., 2023. Attention-aware 
temporal–spatial graph neural network with multi-sensor information fusion for 
fault diagnosis. Knowl. Base Syst. 278, 110891.
Wang, Z., Xu, Z., Cai, C., Wang, X., Xu, J., Shi, K., Zhong, X., Liao, Z., 2024b. Rolling 
bearing fault diagnosis method using time-frequency information integration and 
multi-scale TransFusion network. Knowl. Base Syst. 284, 111344.
Wei, Y., Wu, D., Terpenny, J., 2024. Remaining useful life prediction using graph 
convolutional attention networks with temporal convolution-aware nested residual 
connections. Reliab. Eng. Syst. Saf. 242, 109776.
Wei, Z., He, D., Jin, Z., Sun, H., Wu, J., Shan, S., Miao, J., Yi, C., 2025. Bogie key 
components fault diagnosis utilizing multi-sensor tensor graphs and dual-attribute 
feature selection. Eng. Appl. Artif. Intell. 160, 111727.
Xiao, D., Huang, Y., Qin, C., Shi, H., Li, Y., 2019. Fault diagnosis of induction motors 
using recurrence quantification analysis and LSTM with weighted BN. Shock Vib. 
2019, 8325218.
Xiao, X., Li, C., Huang, J., Yu, T., 2024. Rotating machinery fault diagnosis based on one- 
dimensional convolutional neural network and modified multi-scale graph 
convolutional network under limited labeled data. Eng. Appl. Artif. Intell. 137, 
109129.
Xu, J., Ke, H., Jiang, Z., Mo, S., Chen, Z., Gui, W., 2024. OHCA-GCN: a novel graph 
convolutional network-based fault diagnosis method for complex systems via 
supervised graph construction and optimization. Adv. Eng. Inform. 61, 102548.
Yang, J., Cheng, F., Liu, Z., Duodu, M.M., Zhang, M., 2023a. A novel semi-supervised 
fault detection and isolation method for battery system of electric vehicles. Appl. 
Energy 349, 121650.
Yang, Y., Li, T., Sun, C., Zhang, L., Yan, R., 2023b. Graph attention U-Net to fuse multi- 
sensor signals for long-tailed distribution fault diagnosis. Eng. Appl. Artif. Intell. 126, 
106927.
Zhang, L., Zhou, F., Duan, P., Yuan, X., 2024a. Fault diagnosis of mobile robot based on 
dual-graph convolutional network with prior fault knowledge. Adv. Eng. Inform. 62, 
102865.
Zhang, S., Tong, H., Xu, J., Maciejewski, R., 2019. Graph convolutional networks: a 
comprehensive review. Computat. Soc. Netw. 6, 1–23.
Zhang, X., Hu, Y., Liu, J., Zhang, X., Wu, B., 2022a. Robust rotating machinery diagnosis 
using a dynamic-weighted graph updating strategy. Measurement 202, 111895.
Zhang, X., Jiang, L., Wang, L., Zhang, T., Zhang, F., 2024b. A pruned-optimized weighted 
graph convolutional network for axial flow pump fault diagnosis with hydrophone 
signals. Adv. Eng. Inform. 60, 102365.
Zhang, X., Liu, J., Zhang, X., Lu, Y., 2025. Self-supervised graph feature enhancement 
and scale attention for mechanical signal node-level representation and diagnosis. 
Adv. Eng. Inform. 65, 103197.
S.K. Lee et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
Engineering Applications of Artiϧcial Intelligence 179 (2026) 115273 
17


===== PAGE 18 =====

Zhang, X., Long, Z., Peng, J., Wu, G., Hu, H., Lyu, M., Qin, G., Song, D., 2022b. Fault 
prediction for electromechanical equipment based on spatial-temporal graph 
information. IEEE Trans. Ind. Inf. 19, 1413–1424.
Zhang, X., Zhang, X., Liu, J., Wu, B., Hu, Y., 2023. Graph features dynamic fusion 
learning driven by multi-head attention for large rotating machinery fault diagnosis 
with multi-sensor data. Eng. Appl. Artif. Intell. 125, 106601.
Zhao, B., Zhang, X., Wu, Q., Yang, Z., Zhan, Z., 2023. A novel unsupervised directed 
hierarchical graph network with clustering representation for intelligent fault 
diagnosis of machines. Mech. Syst. Signal Process. 183, 109615.
Zhao, J., Liu, Z., Sun, Q., Li, Q., Jia, X., Zhang, R., 2022. Attention-based dynamic spatial- 
temporal graph convolutional networks for traffic speed forecasting. Expert Syst. 
Appl. 204, 117511.
Zhao, X., Zhu, X., Liu, J., Hu, Y., Gao, T., Zhao, L., Yao, J., Liu, Z., 2024. Model-assisted 
multi-source fusion hypergraph convolutional neural networks for intelligent few- 
shot fault diagnosis to electro-hydrostatic actuator. Inf. Fusion 104, 102186.
Zheng, S., Wang, C., Zio, E., Liu, J., 2024. Fault detection in complex mechatronic 
systems by a hierarchical graph convolution attention network based on causal 
paths. Reliab. Eng. Syst. Saf. 243, 109872.
Zhiyi, H., Haidong, S., Xiang, Z., Yu, Y., Junsheng, C., 2020. An intelligent fault diagnosis 
method for rotor-bearing system using small labeled infrared thermal images and 
enhanced CNN transferred from CAE. Adv. Eng. Inform. 46, 101150.
Zhong, Q., Li, Q., Ren, J., Chen, X., Liu, D., Yang, Q., 2025a. A cross-domain multi-scale 
feature fusion network based on graph convolution for intelligent fault diagnosis. 
Eng. Appl. Artif. Intell. 160, 111900.
Zhong, W., Mu, X., Zhang, J., Li, D., 2025b. AAGR: graph-level anomaly detection with 
anomaly-aware graph readout. Expert Syst. Appl., 128672
S.K. Lee et al.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    
Engineering Applications of Artiϧcial Intelligence 179 (2026) 115273 
18
