

===== PAGE 1 =====

Employment of ANN for Predictive Motor 
Maintenance and Bearing Fault Detection Using 
Park's Vector Analysis 
 
Abishek Mahesh 
Computer Science 
Vellore Institute of Technology 
Vellore, Tamil Nadu, India 
abishekmahesh2001@gmail.com 
Madiah Binti Omar 
Institute of Autonomous System 
Universiti Teknologi PETRONAS 
31750 Seri Iskandar, Perak, Malaysia  
madiah.omar@utp.edu.my 
Sujatha R 
School of Electronics Engineering 
Vellore Institute of Technology 
Vellore, Tamil Nadu, India 
sujatha.r@vit.ac.in 
B. Aadhi Aadhavan 
School of Electronics Engineering 
Vellore Institute of Technology 
Vellore, Tamil Nadu, India 
aadhi0610@gmail.com 
Rosdiazli Bin Ibrahim 
Institute of Autonomous System 
Universiti Teknologi PETRONAS 
31750 Seri Iskandar, Perak, Malaysia  
rosdiazli@utp.edu.my 
V. Valli Meenaa 
School of Electronics Engineering 
Vellore Institute of Technology 
Vellore, Tamil Nadu, India 
valli.meenaa9@gmail.com 
Nurliana Farhana Salehuddin 
Institute of Autonomous System 
Universiti Teknologi PETRONAS 
31750 Seri Iskandar, Perak, Malaysia  
nurliana_17005523@utp.edu.my 
Abstract— Predictive maintenance is an emerging concept 
that is gaining mainstream popularity in industrial automation. 
It involves continuous monitoring of the machinery's health, 
status and performance in real-time. Hence, it allows the 
industry to schedule maintenance only when specific conditions 
are met and before the machinery breaks down. Critical 
machinery such as three-phase induction motors is being used 
widely in industrial processes. However, they are subjected to 
many electrical and mechanical stresses due to their long 
operating times. Bearing faults account for the highest faults in 
the induction motor. If the faults go unnoticed, they can result 
in motor failure, which generates economic losses. Thus, the 
tracking of motor health becomes ineluctable. One of the most 
effective ways to understand health and efficiency is through 
motor current signature analysis (MCSA). The proposed model 
employed MCSA by plotting Park's vector analysis graph to 
predict motor health. This graph would then be fed as the input 
to an artificial neural network (ANN) for automated 
classification of the healthy or unhealthy motor. The trained 
model has managed to acquire an accuracy >99% in the test set, 
thus triumphing over other predictive maintenance methods. It 
is designed so that the proposed model's computational 
complexity is low enough to run on edge computing devices to 
implement an efficient industrial automation system. 
Keywords— motor current signature analysis, park's vector 
analysis, artificial neural networks, predictive maintenance, 
industrial automation 
I. INTRODUCTION  
Induction motors (IMs) are typically used as prime 
movers in many industries due to their features such as low 
cost, ease of maintenance, high reliability, and versatility [1, 
2]. However, they are highly susceptible to wear and tear and 
confront 
a 
plethora 
of 
unexpected 
failures 
under 
environmental stresses [3]. Studies show that approximately 
40% to 90% of IMs failures are associated with bearing faults 
depending on the size of machines [3, 4]. Since bearings play 
a significant role in the operation of IMs, if the faults go 
unnoticed, they may cause catastrophic damage to the 
machine. Therefore, industries often undergo scheduled 
maintenance where the health of all these motors or bearings 
is checked and replaced if necessary. Instantaneous 
monitoring and prediction of IMs health have recently gained 
extensive attention among researchers. This is because early 
prediction will enable timely maintenance and avoid serious 
accidents, which may lead to economic losses and risk to the 
operator [2]. 
 
Numerous diagnostic methods based on diverse physical 
magnitudes such as vibration, temperature, current, and 
magnetic flux have been employed to identify the fault in the 
IMs [2]. Among others, motor current signature analysis 
(MCSA) is preferable for analyzing motor health, especially 
when it is in highly inaccessible or remote areas, as is 
common with industrial IMs. Since MCSA uses the 
embedded current signal of the motor's control unit, it does 
not require additional sensors, which results in a lower cost 
and complex system. The current signal can be used to 
remotely monitor a large number of motors from a single 
location. Many studies have verified the reliability of using 
MCSA in IMs to detect breakage in rotor bar, end ring and 
bearing faults [1, 5]. Park's vector approach is one of the main 
techniques that can be utilized for fault detection with MCSA 
[6-8]. This method transforms the IMs three-phase stator 
current into two individual orthogonal phases, and it finds the 
bearing fault based on the spatial variation of the Park's vector 
current locus. A perfect circle of Park describes healthy IMs 
while faults are represented with distortion on the circle. 
 
Recognizing motor current fault signatures necessitates a 
high level of expertise and experience from the user. Hence, 
artificial intelligence (AI) has been introduced to MCSA for 
making detection more user-friendly besides providing 
automatic diagnosis and analysis of the faults in IMs. The 
application of artificial neural networks (ANN) is particularly 
suitable for performing pattern classification due to their high 
learning and generalization abilities [7]. Somehow, the 
studies related to ANN for faults detection are still limited 
IEEE 5th International Symposium in Robotics and Manufacturing Automation, 6-8 August 2022, Malacca
978-1-6654-5932-7/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE
2022 IEEE 5th International Symposium in Robotics and Manufacturing Automation (ROMA) | 978-1-6654-5932-7/22/$31.00 ©2022 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/ROMA55875.2022.9915683
Authorized licensed use limited to: FUNDACAO UNIVERSIDADE DO RIO GRANDE. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 15:59:51 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.


===== PAGE 2 =====

and usually known to be heavily computation-intensive [9-
12]. The present study proposed an automated system 
through ANN using Park's vector analysis for bearing faults 
detection. This method fed Park's vector graph as the input of 
the ANN image classifier, which would categorize the motor 
as healthy or unhealthy. The model is designed with low 
computational complexity so that the processing can be 
performed on the edge node.  
II. LITERATURE SURVEY  
The bearing faults can be categorized according to their 
affected components: outer raceway defect, inner raceway 
defect, and ball defect [13]. Any localized faults in the 
component will create vibrations at the characteristic fault 
frequencies which can be related to the motor speed and the 
bearing dimensions [14]. A review in [15] indicates MCSA 
as the most reliable and efficient method to determine the 
single point faults in a bearing while being economical and 
non-invasive. However, this technique is unable to determine 
the occurrence of distributed bearing faults. Thus, many 
different techniques have been introduced for faults detection 
in IMs to overcome this drawback. 
 
Among techniques available, Park's Vector analysis is 
proven able to detect localized and distributed bearing faults. 
An investigation of Park's vector analysis for localized faults 
in bearing was successfully tested a decade ago [16]. 
Meanwhile, its performance in detecting distributed bearing 
faults was first introduced in [14]. The extensive theoretical 
and empirical analysis provided by hardware implementation 
in this literature concludes that the proposed method not only 
diagnoses the different types of bearing faults based on the 
size, shape and thickness of the current patterns but also 
classifies them based on statistical parameters. Through 
Park's vector analysis, the analytical expressions to calculate 
any specific defect frequency are no longer required since the 
fault can be represented through a graphical method of the 
circular pattern [15].  
 
Zarei and Yousefizadeh [17] proposed Park's vector 
modulus for stator current signal using wavelet packet 
transform. The results demonstrated that the Park vector 
increased the amplitude of the fault components and 
eliminated the main frequency of the original current 
measurement signal. It also showed that one could achieve 
fault diagnosis by comparing the energy of fault-relevant 
nodes for healthy and faulty signals. The uniqueness of Park's 
vector analysis was also observed by Sharma, Chatterji and 
Mathew [18], who proposed this approach for Inter-Turn 
Short (ITS) fault by monitoring three-phase stator current. It 
is claimed that the technique not only detects the presence of 
the fault but also estimates the level of fault severity.  
 
Despite the fact that Park's vector approach is simple and 
easy to understand, it is difficult to classify multiple faults. In 
contrast, its extended version can easily categorize fault types 
but is difficult to analyze. Thus, to classify multiple faults, a 
new concept, Multi-layer Park's vector approach (MPVA), 
which combines both approaches, was proposed [19]. MPVA 
was also studied in [20], whereby the advantage of the 
proposed method is that it allows the detection and diagnosis 
of faults in steady and transient operating regimes in the IMs. 
Further, the proposed method has a comparatively lower 
computational cost and could thus be conducted on edge, 
leading to robust industrial automation. The only required 
features for the detection would be the electric supply 
frequency and the control method, without motor 
specification and setting parameters. 
 
To improve the diagnosis and classification of faults in 
IMs, various AI techniques have been introduced. The use of 
an ANN and a support vector machine (SVM) in bearing fault 
detection was explored in [21]. The study was conducted with 
a test rig of high-speed rotors with rolling bearings at various 
speeds and with or without loader. Then, vibration signals 
were collected as the response to the diagnosis. The results 
show that both algorithms can be used to develop a 
knowledge base system that is useful for the early diagnosis 
of faults detection. A review by Jawad and Jaber [22] stated 
that a combination of statistical control charts and AI-based 
methods would produce a robust method for industrial fault 
detection. Other than that, Dhomad and Jaber [23] utilized an 
SCT013 current sensor and Arduino MEGA for the 
acquisition of time-domain signals, which later fed into ANN. 
The researchers managed to classify the motor health 
condition based on 360 validation data sets and findings 
showed that the application of MCSA with ANN is an 
effective method to diagnosis different bearings faults. Still, 
the model was only able to detect one fault at a time. 
 
The use of CNN in Fault diagnosis has been observed in 
[24]. The application of CNN in this domain is extremely 
tricky due to the lack of availability of data. This lack of data 
has a direct effect on the number of layers that the CNN can 
be designed for without causing overfitting of data which 
could lead to an extreme drop in accuracy in the test set. The 
proposed model introduces a novel algorithm which converts 
the electric signals from the faulty machines into RGB 
channels which is then fed into the CNNs. The choice of the 
CNN was a ResNet50. This method has been tried and tested 
in multiple industrial datasets and has been able to produce a 
consistent accuracy as high as 98.95% ± 0.0074. 
 
From the literature survey, it can be summarized that, the 
employment of Park vector analysis for bearing fault 
detection provides us with very strong and reliable metrics to 
perform analysis on the motor health and classify motors as 
healthy and unhealthy. The integration of ANN to the park 
vector analysis automates the classification process. Even 
though ANNs have historically produced lesser accuracies as 
compared to their CNN counter parts, the integration of park 
vector analysis combined with a robust ANN model, we are 
able to classify the health of motors with an extremely high 
precision and accuracy. The light computational requirement 
of the ANN as compared to its CNN counterparts, allows us 
to train and deploy the model in edge devices such as 
Raspberry PI allowing flexibility in the deployment of such 
predictive models in an industrial setting 
 
III. PROPOSED METHADOLOGY  
Fig. 1 depicts the block diagram of the overall 
methodology involving its subprocesses. Primarily, the raw 
data is collected from real plants and converted into Park 
Authorized licensed use limited to: FUNDACAO UNIVERSIDADE DO RIO GRANDE. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 15:59:51 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.


===== PAGE 3 =====

Vector images. Afterward, a simple ANN structure with three 
Dense Layers is utilized in classification processes. 
 
 
 
Fig. 1: Development flowchart 
 
A. Dataset Collection from Real Plants 
Raw data consisting of 3 phase stator current of the motor 
is being collected from three different real industrial plants. 
The raw dataset includes motor current, motor power rating 
and vibration data. 
B. Conversion of Plant Data into Park Vector’s  
Conversion of Plant Data into Park Vector involves a 
series of following processes  
i) 
Plotting Actual Data of every motor. 
ii) 
Rescaling the plotted Currents against time. 
iii) Calculating the stator currents according to the 
formula in (1) and (2), respectively and plot. 
iv) Envelope and plot stator IsD and IsQ component 
trajectory 
 
IsD = √(2/3) Ia - (1/√6) Ib - –(1/√6) Ic
(1)
 
IsQ = (1/√2) Ib - –(1/√2) Ic
(2)
The Park vector Analysis gets its input from the 3 phases 
of the motor, and it plots it as a graph. The shape of the graph 
represents the health of the motor. A well-rounded circular 
graph represents a healthy motor, whereas an elliptical graph 
represents a motor that requires maintenance. The dataset 
comprises 36 images, whereas 28 park vectors are used for 
training, and eight are used for healthy and unhealthy testing. 
The Heathy and unhealthy path vectors are depicted in Fig. 2 
and Fig. 3, respectively. 
 
Fig. 2.  Example Training Dataset of Healthy Park Vectors 
 
Fig. 3.  Example Training Dataset of UnHealthy Park Vectors 
 
C. Construction of ANN Model 
After collecting the dataset, the ANN architecture is 
constructed with layers of different inputs and activations 
functions which is explained in Fig. 4. Then the trained data is 
fed into the ANN model. We achieve the training accuracy; 
we can end the training process and move the model to test it 
with testing data if the results are satisfying. Else it is required 
to fine-tune the model more to achieve the desired results. The 
whole flow of the network is being explained in Fig. 5. 
D. ANN Layers 
The classification is controlled by a simple Artificial 
Neural Network structure with three Dense Layers with 8, 4, 
and 1 unit. The first and second layer has an activation 
function of ReLU, and the final classification layer has an 
activation function of Sigmoid. 
 
 
Fig. 4: ANN Model 
 
Authorized licensed use limited to: FUNDACAO UNIVERSIDADE DO RIO GRANDE. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 15:59:51 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.


===== PAGE 4 =====

 
 
Fig. 5: Network of ANN Model 
 
 
E. Activation Function 
Rectified linear unit (ReLU), sigmoid, tanh, exponential, 
softmax are some of the activation functions built into Keras. 
ReLU is generally preferred in the mid-layers of a neural 
network. The ReLU activation function returns 0 if the input 
is less than 0 and returns x if the input is greater than 0, 
visualized in Fig. 4. The first and second Dense layers are 
controlled by the ReLu function. 
 
ReLU: f(x) = max(0,x)
(3)
                                                                                    
 
Fig. 2: ReLU Function 
 
Whereas the Sigmoid function activates the final layer. The 
sigmoid function is defined below in (4) 
 
⃗ 
1
1 
 e 
(4)
 
 
 
Fig. 3: Sigmoid Function 
 
F. Loss Functions 
Categorical Cross Entropy is used as the loss function 
when the classification is one-hot encoded. The function is 
defined as- 
 
,    , log , 


 
 
 
(5) 
 
 where t is the target value and p is the predicted value. 
 
IV. PERFORMANCE MEASURES 
Deciding on the cross-validation and performance 
measures to be used in analyzing a machine learning model 
is significant. Based on the performance of unseen data, we 
can say whether the model is overfitted, under fitted, or well 
generalized.  
 
A confusion matrix is a tabular summary of the classifier's 
number of correct and incorrect predictions. It is used to 
judge the performance of the classification model. The 
terminologies used for classifications are True positive, True 
Negative, False Positivity, and False Negative. True Positives 
can be defined as the number of positive examples which are 
correctly classified as positive. True Negatives can be defined 
as the number of negative examples correctly classified as 
negative; False positives are the number of negative examples 
wrongly classified as positive. False Negatives are the 
number of positive examples wrongly classified as negative. 
The most importantly used performance matrices derived 
from the confusion matrix are accuracy, precision, recall, and 
F1 score. 
 
Accuracy is the ratio of all the correctly classified samples 
to the total number of test samples shown in (6)  
 
 !"# 
$% 
 $&
$% 
 $& 
 '% 
 '& 
 
(6) 
where TN is true negative, TP is true positive, FN is false 
negative and FP is false positive. 
 
Precision (also called positive predictive value) is the 
ratio of true positive to the total positive instances detected 
by the model as shown in (7). Recall is the ratio of true 
positive to the summation of true positive and false negative 
as shown in (8). F1 score and can be described as the 
harmonic mean of the precision and recall as shown in (9). 
 
V. RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS 
From the confusion matrix in Table II, it is detected that 
the FN, FP and TN rates are null for all the classes stating the 
Accuracy, Precision, Recall and F1 Score to be greater than 
99% as given in Table I. 
 
 
 
Authorized licensed use limited to: FUNDACAO UNIVERSIDADE DO RIO GRANDE. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 15:59:51 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.


===== PAGE 5 =====

TABLE I.  
TESTING RESULT ANALYSIS OF PROPOSED METHOD IN 
TERMS OF DISTINCT MEASURES TABLE TYPE STYLES 
F1 Score 
 
Accuracy 
 
Precision 
 
Recall 
 
100 
100 
100 
100 
TABLE II.  
RESULTS IN CONFUSION MATRIX FOR TEST DATASET 
 
Healthy 
UnHealthy 
Healthy 
16 
0 
UnHealthy 
0 
20 
 
 
Fig. 4: ROC Curve 
 
Testing Predictions derived from the confusion matrix are 
shown visually are shown in Table III with specific True 
Values and Prediction Columns. 
 
 
&!()*)+, 
$&
$& 
 '& 
 
(7) 
-(".. 
$&
$& 
 '% 
 
(8) 
'1 *+!(  2 0 &!()*)+, 0 -("..
&!()*)+, 
 -(".. 
 
(9) 
 
TABLE III.  
RESULTS IN TESTING PREDICTIONS 
Park Vector
True Values
Prediction
Healthy 
Healthy 
Healthy 
Healthy 
Healthy 
Healthy 
UnHealthy 
UnHealthy 
UnHealthy 
UnHealthy 
 
VI. CONCLUSION 
In the proposed work, ANN model for the various bearing 
fault segregation classification has been developed based on 
Park’s vector analysis of three-phase stator currents. The 
experimental results indicate that the developed ANN model 
renders >99% classification results for the dataset.  It can be 
foreseen that the proposed method will enhance the reliability 
and accuracy of the methods used for the online detection and 
diagnosis of various bearing faults. Furthermore, the 
proposed and designed model is compatible with Linux OS 
and can thus be deployed in a RaspberryPi (RPI), the 
preferred edge device in most industries for industrial 
automation. The deployed model has proved to be robust and 
stable and has outperformed the accuracy of the existing 
predictive maintenance models. The usage of RPI enables the 
industry to conduct predictive maintenance at a low-cost 
factor and a minuscule energy footprint, thus enabling 
enterprises to reduce full-scale maintenance and run the 
plants smoothly and effectively. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT 
Authors are thankful to Yayasan Universiti Teknologi 
PETRONAS for partially financing this research under grant 
YUTP (015LC0-362). 
REFERENCES 
[1] 
R. N. Toma, A. E. Prosvirin, and J.-M. Kim, “Bearing fault diagnosis 
of induction motors using a genetic algorithm and machine learning 
classifiers,” Sensors, vol. 20, no. 7, pp. 1884, 2020. 
[2] 
M. Valtierra-Rodriguez, J. R. Rivera-Guillen, J. A. Basurto-Hurtado, 
J. J. De-Santiago-Perez, D. Granados-Lieberman, and J. P. 
Amezquita-Sanchez, “Convolutional neural network and motor 
current signature analysis during the transient state for detection of 
broken rotor bars in induction motors,” Sensors, vol. 20, no. 13, pp. 
3721, 2020. 
[3] 
X. Song, J. Hu, H. Zhu, and J. Zhang, “A bearing outer raceway fault 
detection method in induction motors based on instantaneous 
frequency of the stator current,” IEEJ Transactions on Electrical and 
Electronic Engineering, vol. 13, no. 3, pp. 510-516, 2018. 
[4] 
K. D. Kompella, M. V. G. Rao, and R. S. Rao, “Bearing fault detection 
in a 3 phase induction motor using stator current frequency spectral 
subtraction with various wavelet decomposition techniques,” Ain 
Shams Engineering Journal, vol. 9, no. 4, pp. 2427-2439, 2018. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: FUNDACAO UNIVERSIDADE DO RIO GRANDE. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 15:59:51 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.


===== PAGE 6 =====

[5] 
L. Collamati, F. Filippetti, G. Franceschini, S. Pirani, and C. Tassoni, 
"Induction machine stator fault on-line diagnosis based on LabVIEW 
environment." pp. 495-498. 
[6] 
S. Singh, A. Kumar, and N. Kumar, “Motor current signature analysis 
for bearing fault detection in mechanical systems,” Procedia 
Materials Science, vol. 6, pp. 171-177, 2014. 
[7] 
D. Miljković, “Brief review of motor current signature analysis,” 
HDKBR Info magazin, vol. 5, no. 1, pp. 14-26, 2015. 
[8] 
S. Vigneshkumar, V. K. Shankar, P. N. Krishna, and P. Supriya, "Fault 
detection in gearbox using motor electrical signature analysis." pp. 1-
6. 
[9] 
Q. S. Al-Sabbagh, and H. E. Alwan, “Detection of static air-gap 
eccentricity in three phase induction motor by using artificial neural 
network (ANN),” Journal of Engineering, vol. 15, no. 4, 2009. 
[10] V. Ghate, and S. Dudul, “Artificial neural network based fault 
classifier for three phase induction motor,” International Journal of 
Computational Intelligence Research, vol. 5, no. 1, pp. 25-37, 2009. 
[11] M. Khazaee, H. Ahmadi, M. Omid, A. Banakar, and A. Moosavian, 
“Feature-level fusion based on wavelet transform and artificial neural 
network for fault diagnosis of planetary gearbox using acoustic and 
vibration signals,” Insight-Non-Destructive Testing and Condition 
Monitoring, vol. 55, no. 6, pp. 323-330, 2013. 
[12] W. Dai, H. Nishi, V. Vyatkin, V. Huang, Y. Shi, and X. Guan, 
“Industrial edge computing: Enabling embedded intelligence,” IEEE 
Industrial Electronics Magazine, vol. 13, no. 4, pp. 48-56, 2019. 
[13] S. Shashidhara, and P. S. Raju, “BEARING FAULT DETECTION 
OF INDUCTION MOTOR BY ANN METHOD,” 2014. 
[14] M. Irfan, N. Saad, R. Ibrahim, V. S. Asirvadam, and A. Alwadie, 
“Analysis of distributed faults in inner and outer race of bearing via 
Park vector analysis method,” Neural Computing and Applications, 
vol. 31, no. 1, pp. 683-691, 2019. 
[15] M. Irfan, N. Saad, R. Ibrahim, V. S. Asirvadam, A. S. Alwadie, and 
M. A. Sheikh, “An assessment on the non-invasive methods for 
condition monitoring of induction motors,” Fault Diagnosis and 
Detection, pp. 87, 2017. 
[16] N. Mehala, and R. Dahiya, “Detection of bearing faults of induction 
motor using Park’s vector approach,” International Journal of 
Engineering and Technology, vol. 2, no. 4, pp. 263-266, 2010. 
[17] J. Zarei, and S. Yousefizadeh, Fault Detection in Induction Motors 
using Park's Vector Approach and Wavelet Analysis, 2014. 
[18] A. Sharma, S. Chatterji, and L. Mathew, "A novel Park’s vector 
approach for investigation of incipient stator fault using MCSA in 
three-phase induction motors." pp. 1-5. 
[19] T. G. Vilhekar, M. S. Ballal, and H. M. Suryawanshi, “Application of 
Multiple Parks Vector Approach for Detection of Multiple Faults in 
Induction Motors,” Journal of Power Electronics, vol. 17, no. 4, pp. 
972-982, 2017. 
[20] J. Burriel-Valencia, A. Sapena-Baño, M. Pineda-Sanchez, and J. 
Martinez-Roman, "Multilayer Park's vector approach, a method for 
fault detection on induction motors." pp. 775-780. 
[21] P. K. Kankar, S. C. Sharma, and S. P. Harsha, “Fault diagnosis of ball 
bearings using machine learning methods,” Expert Systems with 
applications, vol. 38, no. 3, pp. 1876-1886, 2011. 
[22] S. M. Jawad, and A. A. Jaber, "A Data-Driven Approach Based 
Bearing Faults Detection and Diagnosis: A Review." p. 012111. 
[23] T. A. Dhomad, and A. A. Jaber, “Bearing fault diagnosis using motor 
current signature analysis and the artificial neural network,” 
International Journal on advanced scince Engineering Information 
Technology, vol. 10, 2020. 
[24]        Wen, Long; Li, Xinyu; Gao, Liang (2019). A transfer convolutional 
neural network for fault diagnosis based on ResNet-50. Neural 
Computing and Applications, (), –. doi:10.1007/s00521-019-04097-w 
 
 
 
 
 
Authorized licensed use limited to: FUNDACAO UNIVERSIDADE DO RIO GRANDE. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 15:59:51 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
