

===== PAGE 1 =====

A Deployable Edge Computing Solution for 
Machine Condition Monitoring 
Xijia Zhao  
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering 
University of Kentucky 
Lexington, USA 
Xijia.Zhao@uky.edu 
Peng Wang 
Department of Electrical and Computer Engineering 
Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering 
University of Kentucky 
Lexington, USA 
Edward.Wang@uky.edu 
Abstract—Machine condition monitoring and predictive 
maintenance are critical components of smart manufacturing. 
The realization of machine predictive maintenance relies on 
synthetic integration of advanced sensing, Internet of Things 
(IoT), cloud computing, and Artificial Intelligence (AI)-enabled 
data analytics for machine condition diagnosis and prognosis. 
One challenge that hurdles the manufacturing shop floor from 
implementing predictive maintenance is its outdated hardware 
and limited internet bandwidth, which prevents the floor from 
transmitting all collected data to the cloud for centralized data 
analytics. One promising solution is edge-cloud computing and 
decision-making architecture. In such an infrastructure, 
collected sensing data will be first processed on edge to directly 
obtain machine diagnosis results (e.g., normal vs. abnormal), 
and only extracted features or selected raw data will be 
transmitted to the cloud for further analytics (e.g., remaining 
life prognosis). To improve the affordability and applicability of 
edge computing, this study proposed a novel and deployable 
edge device that adopts a feature-based Tiny Machine Learning 
(Tiny ML) model to achieve vibration data processing and 
machine condition monitoring while maintaining the modeling 
generalizability and computing efficiency. It integrates a 
Microelectromechanical Systems (MEMS) accelerometer for 
vibration data sampling (up to 20 kHz) and a microcontroller 
for edge computing and communication to the cloud. The 
integral IoT system, which involves the edge device, cloud 
services, and wireless communication between the edge and 
cloud is presented, emphasizing its plug-and-play capability. In 
this framework, MQTT protocol is adopted for communication 
among edge, cloud, and end users, allowing processed signal 
information and machine diagnosis results to be published to 
end users in real-time. Extensive experiments have been 
conducted in the context of industrial motor condition 
monitoring and fault diagnosis. High classification accuracy has 
been demonstrated by the device-deployable Tiny ML, 
comparable or even better than the integration of high-cost 
commercial sensors with more advanced ML analytics. 
Additionally, the edge device’s durability and power efficiency 
are also evaluated. 
 Keywords—Edge computing, Tiny ML, machine condition 
monitoring, fault diagnosis 
I. INTRODUCTION 
Industry 4.0 is transforming conventional manufacturing 
shop floor to smart factories, which are driven by advanced 
technologies such as the Internet of Things (IoT), cyber-
physical systems, Machine Learning (ML), Artificial 
Intelligence (AI), big data analytics, digital twins, etc. [1].  
By 
integrating these techniques, manufacturing systems can be 
greatly enhanced, achieving reliability with real-time machine 
health monitoring and prognosis, efficiency by optimizing 
processes for improved cycling time and quality control, and 
sustainability by reducing scrap rates and material waste. A 
representative application of this integration is machine 
prognosis and predictive maintenance, which encompasses 
real-time machine condition monitoring, diagnosis of 
abnormal conditions, and prognosis of machine remaining 
useful life [2] to proactively schedule maintenance actions 
toward reduced maintenance downtime and maintenance 
costs. Achieving condition monitoring relies on two elements: 
sensors (e.g., vibration, current) and sensing data analytics.  
A conventional way of realizing predictive maintenance 
on the shop floor is through cloud computing, namely 
transmitting all collected sensor data from local machines to 
the cloud and performing data analytics and decision making 
on the cloud. Due to the large number of sensors employed to 
cover the entire shop floor which results in high demands for 
power and cloud sources for data transmission, and outdated 
hardware (i.e., limited internet bandwidth) [3], implementing 
cloud computing and centralized decision-making is not 
applicable for most manufacturers. Even though the data 
eventually migrates to the cloud, extensive storage and 
computing resources required for data management and 
analysis lead to increased costs beyond capital investment.  
Edge computing emerges as a promising solution for 
handling big data. Since its introduction in 2004, edge 
computing has been attracting attention from academia and 
industry, because of its cost-effective computing power, 
streamlined data processing pipeline, and good scalability 
compared to cloud computing [4]. It has been widely 
investigated in various fields, such as process monitoring [5], 
quality control [6], and machine predictive maintenance [7]. 
In the area of predictive maintenance, edge computing can 
fulfill the four fundamental elements of machine condition 
monitoring on a single chip: data acquisition, data 
preprocessing, feature extraction, and pattern recognition [8]. 
Data acquisition and preprocessing related studies adapt 
conventional data filtering, enhancement, and compression 
methods to edge implementation [9-11], while feature 
extraction and pattern recognition related research seek to 
implement advanced data analytics with improved reliability 
considering edge device computing constraints [12-15]. In the 
context of machine pattern recognition, inspired by the 
successful studies of AI and ML for fault diagnosis [16], 
researchers started exploring the application of Tiny Machine 
Learning (Tiny ML) for data/feature pattern recognition on the 
edge. Chen et al. [17] developed an edge device to harvest 
This full-text paper was peer-reviewed at the direction of IEEE Instrumentation and Measurement Society prior to the acceptance and publication.
2024 IEEE International Instrumentation and Measurement Technology Conference (I2MTC) | 979-8-3503-8090-3/24/$31.00 ©2024 IEEE | DOI: 10.1109/I2MTC60896.2024.10560795
Authorized licensed use limited to: FUNDACAO UNIVERSIDADE DO RIO GRANDE. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 15:54:37 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.


===== PAGE 2 =====

energy from vibration, the outputs from which were analyzed 
by several Tiny ML methods for spectrum analysis. Morenas 
et al. [18] applied edge computing to analyze motor current 
signals through decision trees, random forests, and support 
vector machines. Magadánet et al. [19] introduced an edge/fog 
computing architecture to analyze vibration signals on edge 
devices and gateways through feature-based pattern 
recognition. While these studies have demonstrated successes 
in some application contexts, the solutions are typically unable 
to continuously monitor machine conditions and analyze high-
frequency sensing data.  A fully deployable and reliable end-
to-end data collection, processing, and decision-making 
pipeline still lacks.  
 
This paper presents a systematic and practical solution of 
edge computing for machine condition monitoring in 
industrial settings, which involves a novel and low-cost edge 
device employing Tiny ML techniques, cloud services, and 
communication approaches between components. The major 
novelties and scientific contributions include:  
• Low-cost 
and 
compact 
design, 
high-frequency 
sampling: A compact edge device that integrates a 
Microelectromechanical Systems (MEMS) accelerometer 
with a microcontroller on a single board is programmed to 
achieve a sampling and transmitting rate of up to 20 kHz. 
The cost of a unit is under $30. 
• Efficient and reliable hardware and algorithms: A 
computationally efficient and generalizable feature-based 
Tiny ML model is employed on the device for machine 
condition monitoring. And performance of the device (i.e., 
accuracy of fault diagnosis, power consumption) is 
demonstrated on actual induction motors.  
• Plug-and-play system, end-to-end decision-making: 
The solution provides an IoT framework that integrates the 
edge device and cloud services, making it ready to be 
deployed in industrial settings. It is facilitated by 
lightweight wireless communication and user-friendly 
interfaces for device operation, end-to-end information 
publication, and machine condition visualization toward 
improved machine health management. 
The rest of this paper is organized as follows: Section II 
introduces the developed edge device, communication 
protocols, and user interfaces. Sections III and IV 
experimentally evaluate the performance of the developed 
device and system, in terms of vibration monitoring, fault 
diagnosis accuracies, and power consumption, which is 
followed by the conclusion in Section V. 
II. SYSTEM DEVELOPMENT 
This system is developed following a typical IoT 
architecture [20], encompassing all stages from hardware 
design and programming to cloud applications for data 
analytics and user visualization. This architecture can be 
categorized into four layers, as illustrated in Fig.1. The base 
of this structure is the hardware layer, whose components are 
employed to capture the vibration signal. Then edge 
computing such as signal feature extraction and Tiny ML 
model inference are applied on the device application layer. 
Data on the edge device (e.g., diagnosis outcomes, extracted 
features, selected raw data) are optionally transmitted to the 
cloud through the network layer, depending on the specific 
objectives. The cloud application layer provides users with 
functionalities for model training and displaying information.  
A. Device hardware layer 
An overview of the edge device is shown in Fig.2. For 
vibration monitoring, MEMS accelerometers are commonly 
adopted because of their high sensitivity, cost-effectiveness, 
and strong reliability [21]. It is connected to a microcontroller 
(MCU), which is critical for facilitating communication 
between the sensor and the cloud, as well as performing 
computing tasks on the device. For this purpose, ESP32 
WROOM 32E is selected as the MCU, which is a dual-core 
32-bit microprocessor equipped with an onboard antenna 
enabling it to achieve a communication rate of up to 150 Mbps 
through 2.4 GHz Wi-Fi under the 802.11 b/g/n standards. It 
boasts a 448 KB ROM and 520 KB RAM, thereby fulfilling 
the storage requirements for edge computing tasks. It is also 
able to handle communication with the MEMS accelerometer 
with various interfaces such as Analog-Digital Converter 
(ADC), Intern IC Bus (I2C), and Serial Peripheral Interface 
(SPI). SPI is chosen as the communication method for its high 
communication speed over other protocols, which can achieve 
up to 10 Mb/s [22].  
There are several auxiliary circuits on the board, such as a 
rechargeable lithium battery for power supply and a USB-C 
port for charging and downloading programs.  
B. Device application layer 
This layer focuses on embedding specific algorithms 
within the MCU, to drive the execution of two tasks: data 
transmission and edge computing (e.g., feature extracting, 
Tiny ML model inferring). 
In the first case, the challenge lies in continuous and high-
frequency data sampling of the vibration signal. Tasks on a 
single core of the embedded device are executed sequentially, 
which means data acquisition must halt during wireless data 
transmission to the cloud, leading to signal loss as depicted in 
 
Fig. 1.  The 4-layer system architecture, from the hardware layer to 
the cloud application layer. 
Fig. 2.  Illustration of the developed edge device. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: FUNDACAO UNIVERSIDADE DO RIO GRANDE. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 15:54:37 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.


===== PAGE 3 =====

Fig.3(a). To address this issue, FreeRTOS [23], a multi-
threaded real-time operating system for microcontrollers, is 
introduced. It enables the execution of multi-threaded tasks, 
specifically, data sampling and sending, on the dual cores of 
ESP32. As illustrated in Fig.3(b), once Core#0 completes the 
sampling task of a data chunk, the data is transferred to a 
shared physical memory for easy access and rapid retrieval by 
Core#1 within 100 instruction cycles on the CPU. Core#1 is 
then triggered to send the data to the server while Core#0 
proceeds with the next sampling task. This method ensures the 
integrity (i.e., no data loss) of the sampled signal, provided the 
sampling time (ts) is greater than the sending time (tm). 
In executing the second task, i.e., vibration signal feature 
extraction and Tiny ML inference, the MCU acts as a fault 
detector. Considering the computing and RAM (520 KB) 
limits, it is difficult to deploy advanced ML algorithms with 
complex structures and numerous tunable parameters. In this 
study, a conventional but effective and efficient feature-based 
pattern recognition tiny ML is adopted. It analyses the 
horizontal and vertical vibration signal by extracting 9 time-
domain features, i.e., Mean, Root Mean Square (RMS), 
Standard Deviation (SD), Skewness, Kurtosis, Crest Factor, 
Latitude Factor, Shape Factor, Impulse Factor, and 7 
frequency-domain features, i.e., Mean Frequency (MF), 
Average Frequency (AF), Stabilization Factor of Waveshape 
(SFW), Coefficient of Variability (CV), Frequency-domain 
Skewness, Frequency-domain Kurtosis (FK), Root Mean 
Square Ratio  (RMSR), which have been validated to reduce 
the computational complexity 
while maintaining its 
effectiveness 
in 
detecting 
motor 
faults 
[24]. 
Two 
computationally efficient algorithms are designed for time-
domain and frequency-domain feature extraction in C++, 
respectively. The complexity of algorithms is crucial for 
implementation on the edge device due to the limited storage 
and capacity of ESP32. 
 In the algorithm for time-domain feature extraction, the 
input data is only traversed once, so the time complexity is 
O(m*n), where n is the length of each signal window, and it 
iterates m times for m different windows. However, the 
frequency-domain feature extraction is relatively time-
consuming. All the frequency-domain features are based on 
the power spectrum density, which is obtained by Welch’s 
method. In Welch’s method, a signal sequence is divided into 
m overlapped subsets of the length n, and the windowed 
discrete Fourier transform (DFT) for each subset is calculated. 
The DFT calculation dominates the overall time complexity. 
Each subset is processed in O(n2) and the signal that contains 
m segments is processed in O(m*n2).  To reduce the time 
complexity, the fast Fourier transform (FFT), which has a time 
complexity of O(n*log n) for a single signal with n data 
points[25], is adopted, and it helps to reduce the time 
complexity to  O(m*n*log n). The feature extraction on the 
edge fully utilizes the edge computing capacity, and it reduces 
the space complexity on the cloud from O(n) to O(1) for one 
edge node, which greatly saves cloud resources.  
After the 32 features (i.e., 9 time-domain features and 7 
frequency-domain features from horizontal and vertical 
vibrations) are calculated, a feature-based Tiny ML model is 
employed to classify the features against different motor 
faulty types. The model is a Neural Network (NN), which is 
designed with 32 input features, two hidden layers with 64 
neurons in each layer, and an output layer that corresponds to 
5 faulty types. This NN is pre-trained on the cloud using 
Google’s TensorFlow Lite framework, an ML framework that 
has been optimized for mobile devices. It only provides on-
device inference abilities [26], implying that model training 
and exporting should be conducted off-board.  
To further streamline the model and accelerate the feature 
extraction and model inference processes, valuable features 
are supposed to be selected as the model input. According to 
our previous work [27], 10 features including AF, MF, SFW, 
FK, RMS, SD, and RMSR from horizontal vibration and FK, 
AF, and CV from vertical vibration, contain almost all the 
necessary information required for detecting motor faults, 
leading to a result that is close to that produced by the full 32-
feature model. This simplified model achieves a 60% 
reduction in size compared to the 32-feature model.  
C. Device and cloud network layer 
This layer enables the communication between the edge 
device and the cloud focusing solely on wireless connectivity 
to fit in the Industrial Internet of Things (IIoT) application 
scenarios. The Message Queuing Telemetry Transport 5.0 
(MQTT 5.0) communication protocol is adopted to support a 
quick connection between the edge and the cloud, for its 
lightweight nature and bandwidth efficiency, which are well-
suited for shop floor environments with limited network 
bandwidth [28]. This protocol allows MQTT clients to publish 
messages and subscribe to messages from different topics on 
the server, greatly facilitating the management of various 
types of data received from distinct edge devices. 
Fig.4 presents the connection between the edge device, the 
cloud, and the cloud application. A connection driver is 
embedded in the edge device application layer, to connect the 
MCU to the MQTT server. Given that two different types of 
data, raw data and features, are to be transmitted, there are two 
separate topics on the cloud to receive and store the data 
respectively. The cloud backend receives the data by 
subscribing to topics on the server and then transfers the data 
to different users. 
Fig. 4.  Communication between the edge device, cloud, and the 
application through MQTT protocols. 
Fig. 3.  (a) Data acquisition and signal loss using a single-core 
microcontroller and (b) the dual-core structure using freeRTOS.
Authorized licensed use limited to: FUNDACAO UNIVERSIDADE DO RIO GRANDE. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 15:54:37 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.


===== PAGE 4 =====

D. Cloud application layer 
The cloud application layer acts as an interface for users, 
and it can include a variety of components that are utilized for 
data analysis, decision-making, device management, etc. In 
this study, three modules are applied: a data manager, a model 
trainer, and a condition viewer, as illustrated in Fig.4. These 
are programmed using high-level programming languages 
such as Python and JavaScript, providing a straightforward 
setting and easy access for users. The data manager retrieves 
the data from the cloud via the cloud application backend and 
saves it on a local computer. It also offers a customizable 
sampling interface that allows the setting of parameters such 
as sampling time, sampling rate, local file location, etc. The 
model trainer is utilized to train the feature-based NN and to 
convert it into a TensorFlow Lite model suitable for on-device 
execution. The condition viewer identifies the machine state 
and the likelihood of specific conditions based on the results 
from edge inference and displays the machine condition and 
the prognosis probability.  
 
The system can recognize five operating conditions:  
normal (N), phase loss (PL), bowed rotor (BR), faulted 
bearings (FB), and unbalanced rotor (UR), as shown in Fig. 5.  
III. EXPERIMENTAL EVALUATION 
This section performs two experiments to evaluate the 
performance of the developed edge device on an induction 
motor for data acquisition and transmission of high-frequency 
signals and fault diagnosis on the edge. As shown in Fig.6, the 
edge device is magnetically mounted on the top of a 
SpectraQuest Machinery Fault Simulator, which is run at three 
rotating speeds: 1200, 2000, and 3000rpm, under five 
operating conditions introduced in Section II.D. The normal 
condition is simulated by a standard motor, while the phase 
loss is simulated by integrating a phase controller with the 
operational motor. The abnormalities related to bowed rotor, 
faulted bearings, and unbalanced rotor are manually 
introduced into respective motors (e.g., cracks on bearings). 
A. Data acquisition and transmission  
In this experiment, the horizontal and vertical vibration 
signal datasets collected by the edge device are compared with 
those from in-situ commercial sensors, to assess the sensing 
accuracy and fidelity of the edge device. 
First, by comparing the vibration waveforms and 
frequency spectrums of the signal collected by the device with 
the signal collected by the commercial sensor, the 
performance of the device can be checked if these two sources 
of signals share similar patterns in both the time domain and 
frequency domain (e.g., the shape of waveforms, dominant 
frequency). The performance is then further evaluated by 
checking if an ML classifier can achieve comparable 
performance on the two sources of signals. The comparable 
classification results would suggest that the edge device 
performs equivalent to the commercial sensors, effectively 
capturing the critical vibration signatures that reveal various 
motor conditions. 
B. Edge computing 
This experiment is conducted to evaluate the performance 
of real-time fault diagnosis on the edge. The process consists 
of two steps: training and validation of the Tiny ML model 
that is trained on the cloud, and the execution of Tiny ML 
model inference on the edge device.  
In the first step, vibration data collected from five different 
motor conditions and three rotating speeds are segmented into 
1024-sample windows with 50% overlapping between 
windows. The edge device extracts the time-domain and 
frequency-domain features from each window and sends the 
features to the cloud. The NN, with a structure introduced in 
Section II, is trained on the feature datasets. To further 
streamline the model, a NN model that takes the 10 most 
valuable features is trained. A high accuracy rate of these 
classification models would prove not only the effectiveness 
of the features extracted by the edge device but also the 
fidelity of the feature-based classification model.  
Following the model training, the NN model is converted 
into a TensorFlow Lite format that is suitable for deployment 
on low-power edge devices and downloaded to the edge 
device for execution. The edge device, now operating in edge 
computing mode, performs real-time inference using this 
model and transmits the diagnostic results back to a server for 
validation. This step involves testing the device across the 
same five motor conditions previously used for training. The 
results of the edge inferences are compared with the known 
conditions of the motor to evaluate the model's precision on 
edge fault diagnosis. 
Fig. 5.  Illustration of user interface on the cloud. 
 
Fig. 6.  The left and top view of the experiment setup. Two commercial 
sensors are connected to the gateway through wires. The edge device is 
magnetically mounted on the top and wirelessly connected to the server. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: FUNDACAO UNIVERSIDADE DO RIO GRANDE. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 15:54:37 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.


===== PAGE 5 =====

IV. RESULTS AND DISCUSSIONS 
A. Performance of data acquisition and transmission 
The waveforms of the normal motor and one with a bowed 
rotor, running at 2000 RPM, captured by the edge device and 
the commercial sensor, are depicted in Fig.7(a) and (b). Their 
corresponding frequency spectrum is presented in Fig.7(c) and 
(d). These representations visually demonstrate similar shapes 
of waveforms and patterns in the frequency domain (e.g., 
dominant frequency, bandwidth), confirming the edge 
device’s capability to capture and transmit the data accurately. 
Furthermore, two ML classifiers trained using the data 
from two different sources, the edge device and the 
commercial sensor, achieve accuracies of 96.4±0.9% and 
91±1.4%, respectively. Remarkably, the model trained with 
the device data exhibited a 5.4% higher accuracy than its 
counterpart, demonstrating higher fidelity of the data. This 
comparison indicates the edge device outperforms the data 
sampling attributed to its dual-core algorithm which more 
accurately samples and transmits the original vibration signal. 
B. Performance of edge fault diagnosis based on TinyML  
During the model training process, an 80/20 split ratio is 
used in creating training and validation data subsets, and 5-
fold cross-validation is utilized, providing a reliable 
evaluation of the model’s performance. As shown in Table 1, 
a 32-feature-based classification model is applied, achieving a 
93.6% accuracy in identifying 5 motor conditions. To improve 
computational performance and reduce power consumption, 
the model that takes the 10 most valuable features achieves a 
91.2% classification accuracy, which is only slightly lower 
than the full-feature model. This result suggests that the 
streamlined feature set can still provide sufficient information 
for reliable classification, which is advantageous for edge 
computing scenarios where computational resources are 
limited. Because a high-speed motor, i.e., running above 2000 
RPM, is not commonly used on the shop floor, the 10-feature 
model is further evaluated under lower RPMs. A 95.7% 
accuracy is achieved by the edge device.  
To further test the model’s robustness, it is deployed to 
detect motor faults using the data sampled from actual normal 
and abnormal motors at low-speed mode (i.e., 1200 and 2000 
RPMs) and all-speed mode (i.e., 1200, 2000, and 3000 RPMs) 
settings. The confusion matrices of diagnosis are shown in 
Fig. 8. Because the phase loss fault, which occurs when one 
phase of the three-phase power supply to the motor is lost, 
exhibits less correlation in vibration signature, especially at 
high RPMs, the accuracy in differentiating it from the normal 
condition is lower than other fault conditions. 
TABLE I  COMPARISON BETWEEN DIFFERENT DATA SOURCES AND TINY 
ML MODELS IN MOTOR FAULT DIAGNOSIS ACCURACY UNDER VARIOUS 
MOTOR RPMS 
Data source 
Motor RPM 
Model 
Accuracy (%)
Edge device 
1200, 2000, 3000 
NN with 32 
features 
93.6 ± 1.7 
Commercial 
sensor 
1200, 2000, 3000 
NN with 32 
features 
72.8 ± 2.9 
Edge device 
1200, 2000, 3000 
NN with 10 
features 
91.2 ± 1.4 
Edge device 
1200, 2000 
NN with 10 
features 
95.7 ± 0.4 
Commercial 
sensor 
1200, 2000 
NN with 10 
features 
90.5 ± 1.1 
 
Fig. 8. Diagnostic accuracy of each type of fault using Tiny ML under 
different rotating speed conditions.
Fig. 7. Comparison between the commercial vibration sensor (a) (c)  and the developed edge device (b) (d) of monitoring normal and bowed-rotor 
motor in time domain and frequency domain. 
Authorized licensed use limited to: FUNDACAO UNIVERSIDADE DO RIO GRANDE. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 15:54:37 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.


===== PAGE 6 =====

Given the constraint of the window size set at 1024 with a 
50% overlapping rate, equivalent to a duration of 0.05 
seconds, there is a potential concern that some critical fault-
related vibration signatures might not manifest within such a 
brief time. As a result, a reputation-based decision method is 
implemented. This method groups 15 successive windows and 
performs an aggregation to determine the classification result. 
This approach significantly enhanced the end decision 
accuracy, attaining a perfect accuracy of 100% on the 5 types 
of motors under 2000 RPM.  
Additionally, power consumption is a limiting factor for 
battery-powered remote devices. To achieve condition 
monitoring over a long period, a one-hour hibernation mode 
is adopted on the device. In this mode, the device waking up 
detects the anomalies once an hour and then transmits the 
inferring result to the server before the next hibernation. The 
detecting time, voltage, and current are measured during the 
inferring process to calculate the maximum continuous 
working time after a full charge. The power consumption of 
the edge device under different working modes is estimated 
in Table II. The edge device can last for 27 days after the 
equipped 500 mAh lithium battery is fully charged.  
TABLE II THE POWER CONSUMPTION IN THE ONE-HOUR CONDITION 
MONITORING SCENARIO 
Task on device 
Current 
(mA) 
Voltage 
(V) 
Duration 
(s) 
Energy 
(mJ) 
Wake-up & Connection
95.3 
3.3 
3.5 
1100.7 
Edge fault diagnosis 
75.9 
3.3 
5.7 
1427.7 
Deep sleep 
0.02 
3.3 
3590 
236.9 
V. CONCLUSION 
This paper presented a solution for industrial machine 
condition monitoring that is not only cost-effective but also 
deployable and reliable, consisting of an innovative prototype 
of an edge device and an end-to-end system. As the core of 
this solution, the edge device can handle the precise collection 
and real-time transmission of high-frequency vibration data, 
as well as on-device fault diagnosis by integration with Tiny 
ML. Future work would explore its reliability in real plants by 
integration with federated learning, which enables the edge 
devices to learn collaboratively while keeping the data 
localized, thereby enhancing the model’s accuracy and 
generalizability across various industrial environments. 
ACKNOWLEDGMENT  
The work is supported by the National Science Foundation 
under grant No. 2015889. 
REFERENCES 
[1] Z. Shakeri and K. Benfriha, “An Overview on Smart Scheduling in 
MES: In the Context of Industry 4.0,” 27th International Conference 
on Automation and Computing, 2022.  
[2] A. Jamwal, R. Agrawal, M. Sharma, and A. Giallanza, “Industry 4.0 
technologies for manufacturing sustainability: A systematic review and 
future research directions,” Applied Sciences (Switzerland), vol. 11, no. 
12. MDPI AG, Jun. 02, 2021. 
[3] M. Gopala and K. Sriram, “Edge computing vs. Cloud computing: an 
overview of big data challenges and opportunities for large 
enterprises”, International Research Journal of Modernization in 
Engineering Technology and Science, vol. 4, No. 1, Jan 2022.  
[4] H. Hua, Y. Li, T. Wang, N. Dong, W. Li, and J. Cao, “Edge Computing 
with Artificial Intelligence: A Machine Learning Perspective,” ACM 
Comput Surv, vol. 55, no. 9, Jan. 2023. 
[5] L. Lan, R. Shi, B. Wang, L. Zhang, and N. Jiang, “A universal complex 
event processing mechanism based on edge computing for IoT real-
time monitoring,” IEEE Access, vol. 7, pp. 101865–101878, 2019. 
[6] Y. C. Liang, W. D. Li, X. Lu, and S. Wang, “Fog computing and 
convolutional neural network enabled prognosis for machining process 
optimization,” J Manuf Syst, vol. 52, pp. 32–42, Jul. 2019. 
[7] T. Qiu, J. Chi, X. Zhou, Z. Ning, M. Atiquzzaman, and D. O. Wu, 
“Edge Computing in Industrial Internet of Things: Architecture, 
Advances and Challenges,” IEEE Communications Surveys and 
Tutorials, vol. 22, no. 4, pp. 2462–2488, Oct. 2020. 
[8] S. Lu, J. Lu, K. An, X. Wang, and Q. He, “Edge Computing on IoT for 
Machine Signal Processing and Fault Diagnosis: A Review,” IEEE 
Internet of Things Journal, vol. 10, no. 13. Institute of Electrical and 
Electronics Engineers Inc., pp. 11093–11116, Jul. 01, 2023. 
[9] S. Aiassa, S. Carrara, and D. Demarchi, “Optimized Sampling Rate for 
Voltammetry-Based Electrochemical Sensing in Wearable and IoT 
Applications,” IEEE Sensors Letters, vol. 3, no. 6, pp. 1-4, June 2019, 
[10] H. Tang, S. Lu, G. Qian, J. Ding, Y. Liu, and Q. Wang, “IoT-Based 
Signal Enhancement & Compression Method for Efficient Motor 
Bearing Diagnosis,” IEEE Sens J, vol. 21, no. 2, pp. 1820–1828, 2021. 
[11] X. Wang, S. Lu, W. Huang, Q. Wang, S. Zhang, and M. Xia, “Efficient 
Data Reduction at the Edge of Industrial Internet of Things for PMSM 
Bearing Fault Diagnosis,” IEEE Trans Instrum Meas, vol. 70, 2021. 
[12] T. T. Huong et al., “Federated Learning-Based Explainable Anomaly 
Detection for Industrial Control Systems,” IEEE Access, vol. 10, pp. 
53854–53872, 2022. 
[13] H. Huang, L. Yang, Y. Wang, X. Xu, and Y. Lu, “Digital Twin-driven 
online anomaly detection for an automation system based on edge 
intelligence,” J Manuf Syst, vol. 59, pp. 138–150, 2021. 
[14] S. Zhou, Y. Du, B. Chen, Y. Li, and X. Luan, “An Intelligent IoT 
Sensing System for Rail Vehicle Running States Based on TinyML,” 
IEEE Access, vol. 10, pp. 98860–98871, 2022. 
[15] Q. N. Minh, V. H. Nguyen, V. K. Quy, L. A. Ngoc, A. Chehri, and G. 
Jeon, “Edge Computing for IoT-Enabled Smart Grid: The Future of 
Energy,” Energies (Basel), vol. 15, no. 17, Sep. 2022. 
[16] R. Zhao, R. Yan, Z. Chen, K. Mao, P. Wang, and R. X. Gao, “Deep 
learning and its applications to machine health monitoring,” 
Mechanical Systems and Signal Processing, vol. 115. Academic Press, 
pp. 213–237, Jan. 15, 2019. 
[17] Z. Chen, Y. Gao, and J. Liang, “LOPdM: A Low-power On-device 
Predictive Maintenance System Based on Self-powered Sensing and 
TinyML,” IEEE Trans Instrum Meas, 2023. 
[18] J. de las Morenas, F. Moya-Fernández, and J. A. López-Gómez, “The 
Edge Application of Machine Learning Techniques for Fault Diagnosis 
in Electrical Machines,” Sensors, vol. 23, no. 5, Mar. 2023. 
[19] L. Magadán, F. J. Suárez, and D. F. García, “Low-Cost Industrial IoT 
System for Wireless Monitoring of Electric Motors Condition,” Mobile 
Networks and Applications, vol. 28, no. 1, pp. 97–106, Feb. 2023. 
[20] D. Mazzei, and G. Fantoni, “A Full Stack for Quick Prototyping of IoT 
Solutions,” Ann. Telecommun, vol. 73, pp. 439–449, 2018. 
[21] M. H. Mohd Ghazali and W. Rahiman, “Vibration Analysis for 
Machine Monitoring and Diagnosis: A Systematic Review,” Shock and 
Vibration, vol. 2021. Hindawi Limited, 2021. 
[22] F. Leens, "An introduction to I2C and SPI protocols," IEEE 
Instrumentation & Measurement Magazine, vol. 12, no. 1, Feb. 2009. 
[23] Guan F, Peng L, Perneel L, “Open source FreeRTOS as a case study in 
real-time operating system evolution,” Journal of Systems and 
Software, vol. 118, pp. 19-35, 2016 
[24] Z. Xu, Y. Li, Z. Wang, and J. Xuan, “A Novel Clustering Method 
Combining ART with Yu’s Norm for Fault Diagnosis of Bearings,” 
Shock and Vibration, vol. 2016. 
[25] S Lennart Johnsson, "Cooley-Tukey FFT on the Connection Machine," 
Parallel Computing, vol.18, issue 11, pp.1201-1221, 1992 
[26] J. Chen and X. Ran, “Deep Learning with Edge Computing: A 
Review,” Proceedings of the IEEE, vol. 107, no. 8, Aug. 01, 2019.  
[27] Y. Wang and P. Wang, “Explainable machine learning for motor fault 
diagnosis,” IEEE Instru & Measurement Technology Conf., 2023.  
[28] D. Soni and A. Makwana, “A Survey On Mqtt: A Protocol Of Internet 
of Things(IoT),” International conference on telecommunication, 
power analysis and computing techniques, Vol. 20. 2017.  
 
Authorized licensed use limited to: FUNDACAO UNIVERSIDADE DO RIO GRANDE. Downloaded on June 26,2026 at 15:54:37 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply.
